RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE.

COMPILED BY THE LADIES' AID SOCIETY OF THE FIRST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH,
MARION, OHIO.

"We may live without poetry, music, and art;
We may live without conscience, and live without heart;
We may live without friends; we may live without books;
But civilized man cannot live without cooks."
--OWEN MEREDITH

MARION, OHIO:
PRESS OF KELLEY MOUNT.
1894.

Entered according to Act of Congress in the year 1894 by the
LADIES' AID SOCIETY OF THE FIRST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH, MARION, OHIO.
In the Office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington.

To the Mothers, Wives, Sisters and Sweethearts of the Good Men of
America this Book is Dedicated by the "TRUE BLUES."


PREFACE.

Although in putting forth this little book we do not claim that we are
filling a "Long felt want," yet we do feel that its many tried and
true recipes from our own housekeepers will be very welcome.  We also
believe that it will not only be welcomed by those who recognize the
names and merits of the various contributors, but by all housekeepers,
young and old.  There can never be too many helps for those who, three
times a day, must meet and answer the imperative question, "What shall
we eat?"

To the many who have helped so willingly in the compilation of this
book, the Editorial Committee would extend a grateful acknowledgment.

For the literary part of the work, we would beg your indulgence, since
for each of us it is the first venture in the making of a book.



MENUS.

"All the labor of man is for his mouth, And yet the appetite is not
filled."  --SOLOMON.



SUNDAY BREAKFAST (WINTER).  MRS. T. H. LINSLEY.

Oat Meal.  Boston Brown Bread.  Boston Baked Beans.  Coffee.



PLAIN DINNER.  EUGENE DE WOLFE.

Tomato Soup.  Boiled Fish.  Lemon Sauce.  Roast Lamb.  Mint Sauce.
Stewed Tomatoes.  Sweet Potatoes.  Spanish Cream.  Coffee.



PLAIN DINNER.  EUGENE DE WOLFE.

Bouillon.  Boiled Spring Chicken.  New Potatoes.  New Peas.  Lettuce,
Mayonnaise Dressing.  Rhubarb Pie.  Cheese.  Crackers.  Coffee.



OLD-FASHIONED THANKSGIVING DINNER.  GAIL HAMILTON.

Roast Turkey, Oyster Dressing.  Cranberry Sauce.  Mashed Potatoes.
Baked Corn.  Olives.  Peaches.  Pumpkin Pie.  Mince Pie.  Fruit.
Cheese.  Coffee.



FAMILY DINNERS FOR A WEEK IN SUMMER.  OZELLA SEFFNER.

Sunday.

Green Corn Soup.  Salmon and Green Peas.  Roast Beef.  Tomatoes.  New
Potatoes.  Strawberry Ice Cream.  Cake.  Coffee.  Iced Tea.

Monday.

Lamb Chops.  Mint Sauce.  Potatoes.  Escaloped Onions.  Cucumber
Salad.  Orange Pudding.

Tuesday.

Veal Soup.  Fried Chicken.  Green Peas.  Rice Croquettes.
Strawberries and Cream.

Wednesday.

Broiled Beef Steak.  Potato Croquettes.  String Beans.  Tomato Salad.
Fruit Jelly.  Cream Pie.

Thursday.

Potato Soup.  Roast Veal.  Baked Potatoes.  Beet Salad.  Asparagus.
Strawberry Shortcake.

Friday.

Boiled Fish.  Egg Sauce.  Lamb Chops.  Peas.  Escaloped Potatoes.
Lettuce, Mayonnaise.  Raspberry Iced Tea.

Saturday.

Chicken Pot Pie, with Dumplings.  Spinach.  Cucumber Salad.  Radishes.
Lemonade.



PLAIN FAMILY DINNERS FOR A WEEK IN WINTER.  OZELLA SEFFNER.

Sunday.

Cracker-Ball Soup.  Roast Beef and Yorkshire Pudding.  Creamed
Potatoes.  Celery.  Mince Pie.  Apricot Ice Cream.  Cheese.  Coffee or
Chocolate.

Monday.

Cold Roast Beef.  Mashed Potatoes.  Cabbage Slaw.  Pickles.  Plain
Plum Pudding.  Cheese.  Tea.

Tuesday.

Tomato Soup.  Leg of Mutton.  Caper Sauce.  Baked Potatoes.  Stewed
Turnips.  Apple Pudding.  Coffee or Tea.

Wednesday.

Lemon Bouillon.  Baked Fish, with Drawn Butter.  Roast Chicken.
Potatoes.  Boiled Onions.  Pickles or Olives.  Cottage Pudding.

Thursday.

Roast Beef Soup.  Stewed Tomatoes.  Mashed Potatoes.  Boiled Rice.
Turnips.  Troy Pudding.  Egg Sauce.

Friday.

Corn Soup.  Chicken Pie.  French Peas.  Stewed Potatoes.  Cream Slaw.
Suet Pudding.

Saturday.

Boiled Corn Beef, with Vegetables.  Pork and Beans.  Pickles.  Indian
Pudding.  Cream Sauce.



BREAKFASTS.  Fall and Winter.



OZELLA SEFFNER.

1.  Melon.  Fried Mush.  Fried Oysters.  Potatoes.  Rolls.  Coffee or
Cocoa.

2.  Melon or Fruit.  Graham Cakes.  Maple Syrup.  New Pickles.
Broiled Steak.  Corn Oysters.  Coffee or Cocoa.

3.  Melon or Fruit.  Fried Oat Meal Mush.  Syrup.  Bacon, Dipped in
Eggs.  Fried Potatoes.  Coffee.

4.  Oranges.  Warm Biscuit.  Jelly.  Broiled Oysters on Toast.  Rice
Balls.  Coffee.

5.  Oranges.  Mackerel.  Fried Potatoes.  Ham Toast.  Muffins.

6.  Breakfast Bacon.  Corn Griddle Cakes.  Syrup.  Boiled Eggs.  Baked
Potatoes.



Spring and Summer.



1.  Fruit.  Muffins.  Ham.  Eggs.  Radishes.  Onions.  Coffee.

2.  Fruit.  Light Biscuit.  Breakfast Bacon.  Scrambled Eggs.  Fried
Potatoes.  Coffee.

3.  Fruit.  Corn Meal Muffins.  Veal Cutlets.  French Toast.
Radishes.  New Onions.  Coffee.

4.  Strawberries.  Lamb Chops.  Cream Potatoes.  Graham Muffins.
Coffee.

5.  Raspberries.  Oat Meal and Cream.  Sweet Breads.  Sliced Tomatoes.
Hamburg Steak.  Fried Potatoes.  Coffee.

6.  Berries.  Breakfast Bacon, Dipped in Butter and Fried.  Sliced
Tomatoes.  Baked Potatoes.  Muffins.  Coffee.



A FEW PLAIN DINNERS.  GAIL HAMILTON.

1.  Tomato Soup.  Cranberry Sauce.  Roast Pork, with Dressing.
Potatoes.  Peas.

DESSERT--Fruit and Cake.  Coffee.

2.  Vegetable Soup.  Beef Steak and Gravy.  Macaroni, with Cheese.

DESSERT--Cake and Lemon Pudding.  Coffee.

3.  Clam Soup.  Boiled Chicken.  Potatoes.  Lettuce, Mayonnaise
Dressing.

DESSERT--Strawberry  Shortcake, with  Strawberry Sauce.  Coffee.
Crackers.  Cheese.



SOUP.

"A hasty plate of soup"



PREFACE.

The best soups are made with a blending of many flavors.  Don't be
afraid of experimenting with them.  Where you make one mistake you
will be surprised to find the number of successful varieties you can
produce.  If you like a spicy flavor, try two or three cloves, or
allspice, or bay leaves.  All soups are improved by a dash of onion,
unless it is the white soups, or purees from chicken, veal, fish, etc.
In these celery may be used.

In nothing so well as soups can a housekeeper be economical of the
odds and ends of food left from meals.  One of the best cooks was in
the habit of saving everything, and announced one day, when her soup
was especially praised, that it contained the crumbs of gingerbread
from her cake box!

Creamed onions left from a dinner, or a little stewed corn or
tomatoes, potatoes fried or mashed, a few baked beans--even a small
dish of apple sauce--have often added to the flavor of soup.  Of
course, all good meat gravies, or bones from roast or fried meats, can
be added to the contents of your stock kettle.  A little butter is
always needed in tomato soup.

Stock is regularly prepared by taking fresh meat (cracking the bones
and cutting the meat into small pieces) and covering it with cold
water.  Put it over the fire and simmer or boil gently until the meat
is very tender.  Some cooks say, allow an hour for each pound of meat.
Be sure to skim carefully.  When done take out meat and strain your
liquid.  It will frequently jelly, and will keep in a cold place for
several days, and is useful for gravies, as well as soups.



A FINE SOUP.  MRS. W. H. ECKHART.

Take good soup stock and strain it.  When it boils add cracker balls,
made thus:  To one pint of cracker crumbs add a pinch of salt and
pepper, one teaspoonful parsley, cut fine, one teaspoonful baking
powder, mixed with the crumbs, one small dessert spoon of butter, one
egg; stir all together; make into balls size of a marble; place on
platter to dry for about two hours; when ready to serve your soup put
them into the stock; boil five minutes.



ROAST BEEF SOUP.  MRS. W. C. BUTCHER

To a good loin roast add six tablespoons of vinegar and small piece of
butter; salt and pepper; stick six cloves in the roast; sprinkle two
tablespoons of cinnamon and sift one cup of flour over it.  Put in
oven in deep pan or kettle with a quart of boiling water; roast until
it is about half done and then strain over it three-fourths of a can
of tomatoes; finish roasting it and when done add celery-salt to suit
the taste, and one cup of sweet cream and some catsup, if preferred.



BEAN SOUP.  MRS. H. F. SNYDER.

To one quart of beans add one teaspoon of soda, cover with water, let
boil until the hulls will slip off, skim the beans out, throw them
into cold water, rub with the hands, then remove the hulls; drain, and
rub until all hulls are removed; take two quarts of water to one quart
of beans, boil until the beans will mash smooth; boil a small piece of
meat with the beans.  If you have no meat, rub butter and flour
together, add to the soup, pour over toasted bread or crackers, and
season with salt and pepper.  Add a little parsley, if desired.



BOUILLON.  MRS. W. C. DENMAN.

Take three pounds of lean beef (cut into small pieces) and one soup
bone; cover with three quarts of cold water, and heat slowly.  Add one
tablespoon of salt, six pepper corns, six cloves, one tablespoon mixed
herbs, one or two onions, and boil slowly five hours.  Strain, and
when cold, remove the fat.  Heat again before serving, and season with
pepper, salt, and Worcester sauce, according to taste.



LEMON BOUILLON.  LOUISE KRAUSE.

A DELICATE SOUP.--Take soup meat, put on to cook in cold water; boil
until very tender; season with salt.  Into each soup plate slice very
fine one hard boiled egg and two or three very thin slices of lemon.
Strain the meat broth over this and serve hot, with crackers.



CORN SOUP.  MRS. G. H. WRIGHT.

Cover a soup bone with water, and boil one hour.  Add some cabbage and
onion (cut fine).  Boil two hours longer.  Add twelve ears of grated
sweet corn.  Season to taste.



NOODLE SOUP.  MRS. W. H. ECKHART.

Beat three eggs.  Add a pinch of salt, and flour sufficient for a
stiff dough; roll into very thin sheets; dredge with flour to avoid
sticking; turn often until dry enough to cut; cut very fine, and add
to the stock five minutes before serving.  Season to taste.



OYSTER STEW.  MRS. J. ED. THOMAS.

Wash one quart oysters and place on the fire.  When they boil, add one
quart of boiling milk, and season with salt, pepper, and plenty of
butter.  Serve with crackers or toast.



POTATO SOUP.  MRS. T. H. LINSLEY.

Slice four ordinary-sized potatoes into one quart of boiling water.
When done add one quart milk; into this slice one onion.  Thicken just
before serving with one egg rubbed into as much flour as it will
moisten.  Pepper and salt to taste.



POTATO SOUP.  MRS. U. F. SEFFNER.

After stewing veal, use the stock.  Slice four or five potatoes very
thin; lay them in cold water until thirty minutes before serving; add
them to the stock, with sufficient salt and pepper.  Beat one
tablespoon of butter and one tablespoon of flour to cream; add to this
one pint milk; stir in the soup just before serving.  This can be made
without meat by adding more butter and milk.



TOMATO SOUP.  MRS. R. H. JOHNSON.

Take half a can, or six large fresh tomatoes; stew until you can pass
through a course sieve.  Rub one tablespoonful of butter to a cream
with one tablespoonful flour or corn starch.  Have ready a pint
scalded milk, into which stir one-half saltspoon soda.  Put the
strained tomato into the soup pot; add the butter and flour, after
having heated them to almost frying point; let come to a good boil;
add just before serving; season with a little pepper, a lump of loaf
sugar, a dust of mace and a teaspoon of salt.



TOMATO SOUP.  MRS. HARRY TRUE.

One quart canned tomatoes, one quart of water, a few stalks of celery;
boil until soft.  Return to stove, and add three-fourths of a teaspoon
of soda and allow to effervesce; then add the liquid from one quart of
oysters, one quart boiling milk and one cup of cream.  Salt, butter,
and pepper to taste.  Boil a few moments and serve.



TOMATO SOUP.  MRS. T. H. B. BEALE

Put on soup bone early to boil.  Have two quarts of liquor on the
bone.  When done, remove the bone from kettle; put one can of tomatoes
through sieve; add to the liquor; then immediately add one-half
teaspoon soda, a small lump butter, one tablespoon white sugar, one
heaping tablespoon of flour mixed with a half cup of cream or milk;
salt and pepper to taste.  After the flour is in let boil up three
times, and serve.



VEGETABLE SOUP.  MRS. J. S. REED.

One-fourth head cabbage, three large onions, one turnip, three large
potatoes, two tablespoons cooked beans; boil all together till tender.
Pour off all water; then add one gallon of stock.  Add tomatoes, if
you like.



VEAL SOUP.  MRS. SAMUEL BARTRAM.

Put a veal soup bone over the fire in one gallon of cold water; skim
carefully as it comes to a boil; after it has boiled one hour season
it with salt and pepper and half teaspoonful (scant) celery seed.  In
another half hour put in one-half cup rice, one medium-sized potato
(cut in dice or thin slices), two good-sized onions (sliced fine); let
boil one-half hour longer, and when ready to serve add one egg
(well-beaten), one-half cup milk, one tablespoon flour; let come to a
boil, and serve.



VEGETABLE SOUP.  MRS. G. A. LIVINGSTON.

Three onions, three carrots, three turnips, one small cabbage, one
pint tomatoes.  Chop all the vegetables, except the tomatoes, very
fine.  Have ready in a porcelain kettle three quarts boiling water;
put in all except tomatoes and cabbage; simmer for one-half hour; then
add the chopped cabbage and tomatoes (the tomatoes previously stewed);
also a bunch of sweet herbs.  Let soup boil for twenty minutes; strain
through a sieve, rubbing all the vegetables through.  Take two
tablespoonfuls butter, one tablespoon flour; beat to cream.  Pepper
and salt to taste, and add a teaspoon of white sugar; one-half cup
sweet cream, if you have it; stir in butter and flour; let it boil up,
and it is ready for the table.  Serve with fried bread chips or
poached eggs, one in each dish.



FISH AND OYSTERS.

"Now good digestion, wait on appetite,
And health on both."
                                                            --MACBETH.




ACCOMPANIMENTS OF FISH.  MRS. DELL WEBSTER DE WOLFE.

With boiled fresh mackerel, gooseberries, stewed.

With boiled blue fish, white cream sauce and lemon sauce.

With boiled shad, mushroom, parsley and egg sauce.

Lemon makes a very grateful addition to nearly all the insipid members
of the fish tribe.  Slices of lemon cut into very small dice, stirred
into drawn butter and allowed to come to a boiling point, is a very
fine accompaniment.



RULE FOR SELECTING FISH.

If the gills are red, the eyes full, and the whole fish firm and
stiff, they are fresh and good; if, on the contrary, the gills are
pale, the eyes sunken, the flesh flabby, they are stale.



BAKED FISH.

Take large white fish or pickerel, make a dressing as for turkey, with
the addition of one egg and a little onion; fill the fish, wrap close
with twine, lay in baking pan; put in one-half pint of water, small
lumps of butter and dredge with flour.  Bake from three-fourths to one
hour, basting carefully.



CODFISH WITH EGG.  MRS. E. P. TRUE.

Wash codfish; shred fine with fingers (never cut or chop it); pour
cold water over it.  Place the dish on the stove and bring the water
to a boil.  Throw the fish in a colander and drain.  Stir a
teaspoonful of flour smoothly with water; add two tablespoonfuls of
butter and a little pepper; bring to a boil; then throw in the
codfish, with a well-beaten egg. When it boils up it is ready for
table.



CODFISH WITH CREAM.  MRS. E. P. TRUE.

Take a piece of codfish six inches square; soak twelve hours in soft,
cold water; shred fine with the fingers; boil a few moments in fresh
water.  Take one-half pint cream and a little butter; stir into this
two large tablespoonfuls flour, smoothly blended in a little cold
water; pour over the fish; add one egg, well beaten.  Let come to a
boil; season with black pepper.



SLIVERED CODFISH.

Sliver the codfish fine; pour on boiling water; drain it off; add
butter and a little pepper.  Heat three or four minutes, but do not
let fry.



CODFISH BALLS.  MRS. T. H. LINSLEY.

One pint shredded codfish, two quarts mashed potatoes, well seasoned
with butter and pepper--salt, if necessary.  Make this mixture into
balls.  After dipping them into a mixture of two eggs beaten with
one-half cup milk, place them in a dripping pan into which you have
put a little butter; place them in the oven; baste frequently with
eggs and milk; bake till a golden brown.



FRIED FISH.  MRS. J. S. REED.

Wash the fish and dry well.  Take one-half pint of flour and one
teaspoon salt; sift together, and roll the fish in it.  Have lard very
hot, and fry quickly.  When done roll in a cloth to absorb all grease.



OYSTERS ON TOAST.  MRS. JOHN KISHLER.

Toast and butter a few slices of bread; lay them in a shallow dish.
Put the liquor from the oysters on to heat; add salt, pepper, and
thicken with a little flour.  Just before this boils add the oysters.
Let it all boil up once, and pour over the toast.



ESCALOPED OYSTERS.  EVELYN GAILEY.

Two quarts of oysters; wash them and drain off the liquor; roll some
crackers (not too fine). Put in a pan a layer of crumbs, some bits of
butter, a little pepper and salt; then a layer of oysters, and repeat
until the dish is full. Have cracker crumbs on top; turn a cup of
oyster liquor over it; add good sweet milk sufficient to thoroughly
saturate it, and bake three-fourths of an hour.



STEAMED OYSTERS.  S. E. G.

Select large oysters; drain; put on a plate; place in the steamer over
a kettle of boiling water.  About twenty minutes will cook them.
Season with pepper and salt; serve on soft buttered toast.



OYSTER GUMBO.  ALICE TURNEY THOMPSON.

Cut up a chicken; roll in flour and brown well in a soup-pot, with a
spoonful of lard, two slices of ham, one large onion (chopped fine),
and a good-sized red pepper.  When browned, cover the whole with water
and stew until the chicken is perfectly tender.  Then add the liquor
of four or five dozen oysters, with water enough to make four quarts.
When it has again come to a good boil, add the oysters and stir while
sifting in one large spoonful of fresh file.  Salt to taste.  Serve
immediately, placing a large spoonful of boiled rice in each soup
plate.

"Gumbo File" is made of the red sassafras leaves, dried and ground
into a powder.



OYSTER PIE.  MRS. ECKHART.

Make a rich pie crust, and proceed as you would to make any pie with
top crust.  Have nice fat oysters and put on a thick layer, with
plenty of lumps of butter; salt and pepper, and sprinkle over cracker
crumbs.  Put in the least bit of water, and cover with crust.  Bake,
and serve with turkey.



OYSTER PIE.  MRS. EMMA OGIER.

For crust make a dough as for baking powder biscuit.  Take one quart
of oysters; remove a half dozen good-sized ones into a saucepan; put
the rest into bottom of your baking dish.  Add four spoons of milk;
salt to taste, and dot closely with small lumps of butter.  Over this
put your crust, about as thick as for chicken pie, and place in oven
to bake until crust is well done.  Take the oyster left, add one-half
cup water, some butter, salt and pepper; let this come to a boil;
thicken with flour and milk, and serve as gravy with the pie.



FRIED OYSTERS.  MRS. H. T. VAN FLEET.

Place New York counts in a colander to drain for a few minutes.  With
a fork remove them separately to a dry towel.  Place another towel
over them, allowing them to remain until all moisture is absorbed.
Have ready the beaten yolks of three eggs and a quantity of rolled
cracker, salted and peppered.  Dip each oyster separately, first into
egg, then into cracker.  When all have been thus dipped, have ready a
hot spider, into which drop four heaping tablespoons of butter.  When
butter is melted, place in the oysters, one by one; fry a light brown,
then turn.  Serve very hot.



PIGS IN BLANKET.  FRED. LINSLEY.

Take extra select oysters and very thin slices of nice bacon.  Season
the oysters with a little salt and pepper.  Roll each oyster in a
slice of bacon; pin together with a toothpick; roast over hot coals,
either laid on a broiler, or fasten them on a meat fork and hold over
the coals.  Cook until the bacon is crisp and brown.  Don't remove the
toothpick.  Serve hot.



SOUR FISH.  MRS. W. H. ECKHART.

Take a whole fish; stew until tender in salt water; take out, lay on
platter.  Throw a handful of raisins in the salt water and a few whole
cloves, allspice, stick cinnamon, with vinegar enough to give a sour
taste, and a tablespoonful of sugar.  Thicken with flour to the
consistency of gravy; pour over fish.  Serve cold.  Fish may be served
with mayonnaise dressing, cooked in same manner.



SALT HERRING.  MRS. JUDGE B.

Heat them on gridiron; remove the skin and serve with pepper and
melted butter.



SALMON LOAF.  MARGARET LEONARD.

One small can salmon, four eggs beaten light, four tablespoons melted
butter--not hot--one half cup fine bread crumbs.  Season with salt,
pepper, and parsley.  Chop fish fine, then rub in butter till smooth.
Beat crumbs into egg and season before putting with fish.  Butter your
mold and steam one hour.

SAUCE FOR SAME.--One cup of milk, heated to a boil; thicken with one
tablespoon of corn starch and one tablespoon of butter, beaten
together.  Put in the liquor from the salmon and one raw egg, beaten
light; add a little pepper.  Put the egg in last, and carefully pour
over loaf; Serve hot.



SAUCE FOR FISH.

Stir in one cup of drawn butter, the yolks of two eggs (well beaten),
pepper and salt, and a few sprigs of parsley.  Let it boil.  Pour over
fish when ready to serve.



SOUR SAUCE FOR FISH.

One-half cup butter, with one-half cup vinegar; let boil, then add two
mustardspoonfuls of prepared mustard, a little salt, and one egg,
beaten together.  Make in the farina kettle.  Stir while cooking.



BROILED OYSTERS.

Place good-sized oysters on pie plates; sprinkle well with flour,
small lumps of butter, pepper and salt.  Cover with strained liquor
and a little cold water.  Set in a warm oven fifteen or twenty
minutes.  Nice to serve with turkey.



OVEN FRIED FISH.  MRS. JANE E. WALLACE.

Open and clean fish (white or bass).  Have fish pan spread thick with
butter, and lay fish in.  Season with salt. Over this pour two
well-beaten eggs, and dredge with flour.  Bake three-quarters of an
hour, and baste with butter and water.  Garnish fish plate with
parsley.



ESCALOPED SALMON. CARRIE P. WALLACE.

Pick bones and skin out of one can of salmon, and mince fine.  Use as
much rolled cracker as you have salmon, a little salt, and cup of
cream.  Fill sea shells with this mixture, placing a small piece of
butter on top of each shell.  Bake twenty minutes and serve in the
shells.



FOWL AND GAME.

"And then to breakfast with what appetite you have."
                                                        --SHAKESPEARE.


ACCOMPANIMENTS FOR FOWLS.

With boiled fowls, bread sauce, onion sauce, lemon sauce, cranberry
sauce, jellies, and cream sauce.

With roast turkey, cranberry sauce, currant jelly.

With boiled turkey, oyster sauce.

With wild ducks, cucumber sauce, currant jelly, or cranberry sauce.

With roast goose or venison, grape jelly, or cranberry sauce.



A GOOD WAY TO COOK CHICKEN.  MRS. R. H. JOHNSON.

Fricassee your chicken, taking care to brown the skin nicely; season
to taste.  When done set by to cool; then remove all the bones; put
back into the liquor in which it was cooked; chop fine, leaving in all
the oil of the fowl. If not enough of the oil, add a piece of butter;
then pack closely in a dish as you wish it to go to the table.



DROP DUMPLINGS FOR VEAL OR CHICKEN.  MRS. R. H. JOHNSON.

One full pint of sifted flour, two even teaspoonfuls of yeast powder,
and a little salt.  Wet this with enough milk or water to drop from
spoon in a ball; remove your meat or chicken; drop in the balls of
dough; cook five minutes in the liquor; place around the edge of
platter, with the chicken or meat in center; season the liquor and
pour over it.



JELLIED CHICKEN.  MRS. R. H. J.

Boil the fowl until the meat will slip easily from the bones; reduce
the water to one pint.  Pick the meat from the bones in good-sized
pieces; leave out all the fat and gristle, and place in a wet mold.
Skim all the fat from the liquor; add one-half box of gelatine, a
little butter, pepper and salt.  When the gelatine is dissolved, pour
all over the chicken while hot.  Season well.  Serve cold, cut in
slices.



FRIED CHICKEN.  MRS. J. ED. THOMAS.

Kill the fowls the night before; clean, cut and set on ice until
needed the next day.  Flour and sprinkle with salt and pepper; pour
boiling water over it, and stew three-quarters of an hour.  Add
sufficient butter to fry a light brown.



CHICKEN PIE.

Take a pair of young, tender chickens and cut them into neat joints.
Lay them in a deep pudding-dish, arranging them so that the pile shall
be higher in the middle than at the sides.  Reserve the pinions of the
wings, the necks, and the feet, scalding the latter and scraping off
the skin.  Make small forcemeat balls of fine bread crumbs seasoned
with pepper, salt, parsley, a suspicion of grated lemon peel, and a
raw egg.  Make this into little balls with the hands, and lay them
here and there in the pie.  Pour in a cupful of cold water, cover the
pie with a good crust, making a couple of cuts in the middle of this,
and bake in a steady oven for an hour and a quarter.  Lay a paper over
the pie if it should brown too quickly.  Soak a tablespoonful of
gelatine for an hour in enough cold water to cover it.  Make a gravy
of the wings, feet, and necks of the fowls, seasoning it highly;
dissolve the gelatine in this, and when the pie is done pour this
gravy into it through a small funnel inserted in the opening in the
top.  The pie should not be cut until it is cold.  This is nice for
picnics.



CHICKEN PIE.  MRS. M. A. MOORHEAD.

Stew the chicken until tender.  Line a pan with crust made as you
would baking powder biscuit.  Alternate a layer of chicken and pieces
of the crust until the pan is filled; add a little salt and pepper to
each layer; fill with the broth in which the chicken was cooked; bake
until the crust is done.  If you bake the bottom crust before filling,
it will only be necessary to bake until the top crust is done. A layer
of stewed chicken and a layer of oysters make a delicious pie.  Use
the same crust.



DROP DUMPLINGS FOR STEWED CHICKEN.  MRS. W. H. ECKHART.

Stew chicken and make a rich gravy with milk or cream.  Pour off a
part into a separate vessel and thin with water; let it boil, then
drop in dumplings made with this proportion:  One quart flour, a
little salt, one egg, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, and milk to make
a stiff batter.  Stir, and drop from spoon into boiling gravy.  Cover,
and let boil gently for five minutes.  Try them with a fork.  They
must be perfectly dry inside when done.  Serve with the chicken.



CHICKEN ON BISCUIT.  MRS. H. T. VAN FLEET.

Have prepared for cooking a nice fat fowl about a year old; season
with pepper and salt, and boil two hours, or until very tender.  When
done there should be a quart of broth.  If there is not that quantity,
boiling water should be added.  Beat together very smoothly two
heaping tablespoonfuls of flour with the yolk of one egg and one-third
pint of cold water; add this to broth, stirring briskly all the time;
add one tablespoonful of butter.  Have ready a pan of hot biscuit;
break them open and lay halves on platter, crust down; pour chicken
and gravy over biscuit, and serve immediately .



ROAST TURKEY.  MRS. J. F. MC NEAL.

Prepare the dressing as follows:  Three coffeecups of bread crumbs,
made very fine; one teaspoonful salt, half teaspoonful pepper, one
tablespoonful powdered sage, one teacup melted butter, one egg; mix
all together thoroughly.  With this dressing stuff the body and
breast, and sew with a strong thread.  Take two tablespoonfuls of
melted butter, two of flour; mix to a paste.  Rub the turkey with salt
and pepper; then spread the paste over the entire fowl, with a few
thin slices of sweet bacon.  Roll the fowl loosely in a piece of clean
linen or muslin; tie it up; put it in the oven, and baste every
fifteen minutes till done.  Remove cloth a few moments before taking
turkey from oven.  A young turkey requires about two hours; an old one
three or four hours.  This can be tested with fork.  Thicken the
drippings with two tablespoonfuls of browned flour, mixed with one cup
sweet cream.

OYSTER SAUCE TO BE USED WITH THE TURKEY.--Take one quart of oysters;
put them into stew pan; add half cup butter; pepper and salt to taste;
cover closely; let come to a boil, and serve with the turkey and
dressing.



TURKEY AND DRESSING.  MRS. U. F. SEFFNER.

A good-sized turkey should be baked two and one-half or three hours,
very slowly at first.  Turkey one year old is considered best.  See
that it is well cleaned and washed.  Salt and pepper it inside.  Take
one and a half loaves of stale bread (bakers preferred) and crumble
fine.  Put into frying pan a lump of butter the size of an egg; cut
into this one white onion; cook a few moments, but do not brown.  Stir
into this the bread, with one teaspoon of salt and one of pepper; let
it heat thoroughly; fill the turkey; put in roaster; salt and pepper
the outside; dredge with flour and pour over one cup water.



BONED TURKEY.  MRS. R. H. J.

Boil a turkey in as little water as possible until the bones can be
easily separated from the meat; remove all the skin; slice, mixing
together the light and dark parts; season with salt and pepper.  Take
the liquor in which the fowl was boiled, having kept it warm; pour it
on the meat; mix well; shape it like a loaf of bread; wrap in a cloth
and press with a heavy weight for a few hours.  Cut in thin slices
when served.



ROAST DUCKS AND GEESE.

Use any filling you prefer; season with sage and onion, chopped fine;
Salt and pepper.  (You can use this seasoning with mashed potatoes for
a stuffing).  Young ducks should roast from twenty-five to thirty
minutes; full grown ones for two hours.  Baste frequently.  Serve with
currant jelly, apple sauce and green peas.  If the fowls are old
parboil before roasting.



APPLE STUFFING.  MRS. W. H. ECKHART.

Take one-half pint of apple sauce (unsweetened); add one half cup or
more of bread crumbs, some powdered sage, a little chopped onion, and
season with cayenne pepper.  Delicious for roast geese, ducks, etc.



CHESTNUT DRESSING.  MRS. W. H. ECKHART.

Boil the chestnuts and shell them; blanch them, and boil until soft;
mix with bread crumbs and sweet cream; salt and pepper; one cup
raisins.  Excellent dressing for turkey.



PLAIN STUFFING.

Take stale bread; cut off the crust; rub very fine, and pour over it
as much melted butter as will make it crumble in your hand.  Salt and
pepper to taste.  To this you can add one good-sized onion (chopped
fine), a cup of raisins, or a little sage.



OYSTER DRESSING.

Make dressing same as above plain stuffing; add one egg and one-half
can drained oysters.  Strain the oyster liquor and use for basting the
fowl.



A GOOD SAUCE FOR BIRDS OR VENISON.

Chop an onion fine, and boil it in milk; when done, add the gravy from
the game, and thicken with pounded cracker.



POTTED PIGEONS OR BIRDS.

Pick, soak, and boil the birds with the same care as for roasting.
Make a crust as for chicken pie; lay the birds in whole, and season
with pepper, salt, bits of butter, and a little sweet marjoram; flour
them thickly; then strain the water in which they were boiled, and
fill up the vessel two-thirds full with it; cover with the crust; cut
hole in the center.  Bake one hour and a half.



PIGEONS AND PARTRIDGES.

These may be boiled or roasted the same as chickens, only cover the
breasts with thin slices of bacon; when nearly done, remove the bacon,
dredge with flour, and baste with butter.  They will cook in half an
hour.



RABBITS.  MRS. ECKHART.

Rabbits, which are best in mid-winter, may be fricasseed, like
chicken, in white or brown sauce.  Rabbit pie is made like chicken
pie.  To roast a rabbit, stuff with a dressing made of bread crumbs,
chopped salt pork, thyme, onion, pepper and salt; sew up; rub over
with a little butter, or pin on a few slices of salt pork; add a
little water, and baste often.  Rabbits may be fried as you would
steak, and served with a sour sauce made like a brown flour gravy,
with half a cup of vinegar added; pour over the fried rabbit, and
serve it with mashed potatoes.



MEATS.

"What say you to a piece of beef and mustard?"
                                                        --SHAKESPEARE.


ACCOMPANIMENTS.  MRS. DELL DE WOLFE.

With roast beef, tomato sauce, grated horseradish, mustard, cranberry
sauce, pickles.

With roast pork, apple sauce and cranberry sauce.

With roast veal, tomato sauce, mushroom sauce, onion sauce, or lemon
sauce.

With roast mutton, currant jelly, caper sauce, bread sauce, onion
sauce.

With roast lamb, mint sauce, green peas.



TO BOIL MEATS.

For all meats allow from fifteen to twenty minutes for each pound.
Skim well.  All fresh meats are to be put into boiling water to cook;
salt meats into cold water.  Keep the water constantly boiling,
otherwise the meat will absorb the water.  Be sure to add boiling
water if more is needed.  The more gently meat boils the more tender
it will be.



TO BROIL MEATS.

In broiling all meats, you must remember that the surface should not
be cut or broken any more than is absolutely necessary; that the meat
should be exposed to a clear, quick fire, close enough to sear the
surface without burning, in order to confine all its juices; if it is
approached slowly to a poor fire, or seasoned before it is cooked, it
will be comparatively dry and tasteless, as both of these processes
are useful only to extract and waste those precious juices which
contain nearly all the nourishing properties of the meat.



BEEFSTEAK.  MR. GEORGE B. CHRISTIAN.

The chief secret in preparing the family steak lies in selection.
Like cooking the hare, you must first catch it.  Choose a thick cut
from the sirloin of a mature, well fatted beeve, avoiding any having
dark yellow fat.  Detach a portion of the narrow end and trim off any
adhering inner skin.  Place the steak upon a hot spider, and quickly
turn it.  Do this frequently and rapidly until it is thoroughly
seared, without burning.  It may now be cooked to any degree without
releasing the juices.  Serve upon a hot platter.  Pour over a scant
dressing of melted butter.  Season.  Whosoever partakes will never
become a vegetarian.



STUFFED BEEFSTEAK.  E. H. W.

Take a flank or round steak and pound well; sprinkle with pepper and
salt.  Make a plain dressing; spread it on the steak; roll it up; tie
closely, and put in a skillet with a little water and a lump of butter
the size of an egg; cover closely and let it boil slowly one hour;
then let it brown in skillet, basting frequently.  When done, dredge a
little flour into the gravy, and pour over the meat.



TO FRY STEAK.  MRS. H. T. VAN FLEET.

Have a nice tenderloin or porterhouse steak, one inch and half in
thickness, well hacked.  Over this sprinkle salt, pepper, and a little
flour.  Have ready a very hot spider.  Into this drop plenty of good,
sweet butter (a quarter of a pound is not too much); when thoroughly
melted, lay in the meat; turn frequently.  While cooking, make many
openings in the steak to allow the butter to pass through.  When done,
place on a hot platter and serve immediately.



BEEFSTEAK AND ONIONS.  MRS. H. T. VAN FLEET.

Have a steak well hacked; over this sprinkle pepper, salt, and a
little flour.  Into a very hot spider drop one teaspoonful of lard;
when melted, lay in steak; pour over this two tablespoons boiling
water, and cover steak with four good-sized onions, sliced very thin.
Cover quickly and cook five minutes; then turn all over together, and
cook five minutes longer.  Care should be taken that the onions do not
turn.  Take up on hot platter; place onions on top of meat, and serve
immediately.



BEEFSTEAK AND MUSHROOMS.  CALEB H. NORRIS.

Put the steak on to fry, with a little butter.  At the same time put
the mushrooms on in a different skillet, with the water from the can
and one-half cup extra; season with pepper and salt, and thicken with
a tablespoonful of flour.  Take the steak out, leaving the gravy, into
which put the mushrooms, cook for a few minutes, and pour all over the
steak.



BEEF LOAF.  MRS. J. J. SLOAN.

Take three and one-half pounds of lean beef (raw), chopped; six
crackers, rolled fine; three well-beaten eggs, four tablespoonfuls of
cream, butter the size of an egg; salt and pepper to taste; mix all
together and make into a loaf.  Bake one and one-half hours.  Serve
cold in thin slices.



BEEF A LA MODE.  ALICE TURNEY THOMPSON.

Take a round of beef, four or five inches thick, and for a piece
weighing five pounds soak a pound of white bread in cold water until
soft; turn off the water; mash the bread fine; then add a piece of
butter the size of an egg, half a teaspoonful each of salt, pepper,
and ground cloves, about half a nutmeg, two eggs, a tablespoonful of
flour, and a quarter of a pound of fresh pork, chopped very fine.
Gash the beef on both sides and fill with half the dressing.  Place in
a baking pan, with luke-warm water enough to cover it; cover the pan
and put into the oven to bake gently two hours; then cover the top
with the rest of the dressing, and put it back for another hour and
let it brown well.  On dishing up the meat, if the gravy is not thick
enough, stir in a little flour, and add a little butter.  It is a
favorite meat, eaten cold for suppers and luncheons.  When thus used,
remove the gravy.



FRIED LIVER.

Always use calf's liver, cut in slices.  Pour boiling water over, and
let it stand fifteen minutes.  Fry some slices of breakfast bacon;
take out the bacon; roll the liver in either flour or corn meal, and
fry a delicate brown; sprinkle with salt and pepper.  Serve with gravy
if you like.



POTATO AND MEAT PIE.

Take mashed potatoes, seasoned with salt, pepper, and butter; line a
baking dish with it; lay upon this slices of cold meat (any kind),
with a little pepper, salt, catsup, and gravy; then another layer of
potatoes, another of meat, and so forth till pan is filled, having the
last a cover of potatoes.  Bake until thoroughly warmed.  Serve in the
dish in which it is cooked.



COLD MEAT TURNOVERS.  MRS. A. B.

Roll out dough very thin; put in it, like a turnover, cold meat,
chopped fine, and seasoned with pepper, salt, catsup, and sweet herbs.
Make into small turnovers, and fry in lard until the dough is well
cooked.



VEAL CUTLETS.  MRS. U. F. SEFFNER.

Fry a few slices of breakfast bacon.  Dip the cutlets in a beaten egg;
roll in corn meal or cracker crumbs; salt and pepper; put in skillet
with the fat from bacon; fry slowly until a nice brown.



VEAL LOAF.  MRS. GERTRUDE DOUGLAS WEEKS.

Three pounds of veal or beef, chopped fine; three eggs, beaten with
three tablespoons of milk, butter the size of an egg, one cup of
powdered crackers, one teaspoon of black pepper; one tablespoon of
salt; mix well together; form into a loaf, and bake two and one-half
hours.  Baste with butter and water while baking.



VEAL STEW.

Cut four pounds of veal into strips three or four inches long and
about one inch thick.  Peel twelve large potatoes; cut them into
slices one inch thick.  Put a layer of veal in the bottom of the
kettle, and sprinkle salt and a very little pepper over it; then put a
layer of potatoes; then a layer of veal, seasoned as before, and so on
until all the veal is used. Over the last layer of veal put a layer of
salt pork, cut in slices; cover with potatoes; pour in water until it
rises an inch over the whole; cover close; heat fifteen minutes;
simmer one hour.



DRESSING FOR ROAST OF VEAL.  MRS. E. FAIRFIELD.

Two cups of stale bread crumbs, one tablespoonful melted butter;
pepper and salt to taste; make into a soft paste with cream, and lay
over top of roast to brown for about one-half hour before roast is
done.



VEAL AND HAM SANDWICH.  MARY W. WHITMARSH.

Boil six pounds each of ham and veal.  Save the water from boiling the
veal, and to it add half a box of gelatine, dissolved in a little cold
water.  When the meat is cold, run through a sausage grinder, and with
the meats mix the gelatinous water.  Season the veal with salt,
pepper, and sweet marjoram.  Put a little red pepper in the ham.  Make
alternate layers of ham and veal, using a potato masher to pound it
down smooth.  Set in cold place.  It is better to make it the day
before using.



POT ROAST.  MRS. BELINDA MARTIN.

Use any kind of meat; put into an iron pot a tablespoonful of meat
fryings or butter; let it brown; wash off the roast, and put into the
pot.  After it begins to fry, pour in enough water to half cover the
meat; season with pepper and salt; cover, and stew slowly.  As the
meat begins to fry, add more water; turn it often, and cook about
three hours.  A half hour before serving, add either Irish or sweet
potatoes, or turnips; let brown with the meat.



TO ROAST PORK.

Take a leg of pork, and wash clean; cut the skin in squares.  Make a
dressing of bread crumbs, sage, onions, pepper and salt; moisten it
with the yolk of an egg.  Put this under the skin of the knuckle, and
sprinkle a little powdered sage into the rind where it is cut.  Eight
pounds will require about three hours to roast.  Shoulder, loin, or
spare ribs may be roasted in the same manner.



SCRAPPLE.  MRS. EDWARD E. POWERS.

Two pounds pork, two pounds liver, two pounds beef, a small heart;
boil all until thoroughly cooked; take up and chop while warm; put
back into broth (altogether you will have two and one-half or three
gallons); then make quite thick with corn meal.  Cook one-half hour.
Put in pans to mold.  Season meat while cooking with salt, pepper, and
sage.



SPICED MEAT.  MRS. IRA UHLER.

Take five pounds of beef from the shoulder and cover with cold water;
boil until very tender; chop fine and season with salt and pepper.
Slice four or five hard boiled eggs.  Alternate layers of meat and
eggs, having a layer of meat on the top.  Put an ounce of gelatine and
a few cloves into the liquor in which the meat has been boiled; boil
this down to one pint; strain it over the meat, which must be pressed
down with a plate.  Set in a cool place.  Slice cold for serving.



BATTER PUDDING WITH BEEF ROAST.  MRS. C. H. NORRIS.

Put roast in oven, and cook within an hour of being done; then place a
couple of sticks across the pan and rest your roast upon them.  Make a
batter according to the following rule, and pour it right into the
gravy in which the roast has been resting, cook an hour and serve:
Four eggs, tablespoon of sugar, one quart of milk, six tablespoons of
flour, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut.



BONED SHOULDER OF MUTTON.

Have the bone carefully removed from a rather lean shoulder of mutton,
and fill the orifice thus left with a good forcemeat.  To make this,
chop fine half a pound of lean veal and quarter of a pound of ham and
add to these a small cup of fine bread crumbs.  Season with a
quarter-teaspoonful each of ground mace, cloves, and allspice, and a
saltspoonful of black pepper.  Stir in a raw egg to bind the mixture
together.  When the forcemeat has been put into the hole in the
shoulder, cover the mutton with a cloth that will close the mouth of
the opening, and lay the meat in a pot with the bone from the
shoulder, a peeled and sliced onion, carrot and turnip, a little
parsley and celery, and a bay leaf;  Pour in enough cold water to
cover the mutton entirely, stir in a heaping tablespoonful of salt,
and let the water come gradually to a boil and simmer until the mutton
has cooked twenty minutes to the pound.  Let it cool in the broth;
take it out; lay it under a weight until cold, and serve.  This is
also very good hot.  The liquor makes excellent soup.



TO FRY HAM.

First, parboil it and drain well; then fry a light brown. Make a gravy
with milk, a little flour, and a teaspoonful of sugar; pour over the
ham.



HAM TOAST.  MRS. E. SEFFNER.

Chop lean ham (the refuse bits); put in a pan with a lump of butter
the size of an egg, a little pepper, and two beaten eggs.  When well
warmed, spread on hot buttered toast.



BOILED HAM.

The best ham to select is one weighing from eight to ten pounds. Take
one that is not too fat, to save waste.  Wash it carefully before you
put it on to boil, removing rust or mold with a small, stiff scrubbing
brush.  Lay it in a large boiler, and pour over it enough cold water
to cover it.  To this add a bay leaf, half a dozen cloves, a couple of
blades of mace, a teaspoonful of sugar, and, if you can get it, a good
handful of fresh, sweet hay.  Let the water heat very gradually, not
reaching the boil under two hours.  It should never boil hard, but
simmer gently until the ham has cooked fifteen minutes to every pound.
It must cool in the liquor, and the skin should not be removed until
the meat is entirely cold, taking care not to break or tear the fat.
Brush over the ham with beaten egg, strew it thickly with very fine
bread crumbs, and brown in a quick oven.  Arrange a frill of paper
around the bone of the shank, and surround the ham with water-cress,
or garnish the dish with parsley.



TONGUE.

Wash the tongue carefully, and let it lie in cold water for several
hours before cooking--over night, if possible.  Lay it in a kettle of
cold water when it is to be cooked; bring the water to a boil slowly,
and let it simmer until the tongue is so tender that you can pierce it
with a fork.  A large tongue should be over the fire about four hours.
When it has cooled in the liquor in which it was boiled, remove the
skin with great care, beginning at the tip, and stripping it back.
Trim away the gristle and fat from the root of the tongue before
serving it.  Serve with drawn butter or lemon sauce.



FORCEMEAT BALLS.  MRS. JUDGE BENNETT.

Chop cold veal fine with one-fourth as much salt pork.  Season with
salt, pepper, and sweet herbs.  Make into balls; fry them brown.  Eat
this way, or drop into soup.



VEAL LOAF.  MRS. U. F. SEFFNER.

Three pounds of lean veal chopped with one pound of raw salt pork;
three eggs, one pint of rolled cracker; one tablespoon of salt, one
tablespoon of pepper, one tablespoon of butter, a little sage; mix all
together; make into a loaf.  Put one-half pint of water in roaster;
put in the loaf; sprinkle fine cracker crumbs over it, and some small
lumps of butter; bake slowly one hour; if baked in open pan, baste
same as turkey.



SWEET BREADS.

Parboil them in salt water; remove the skin and tough parts; cut in
pieces the size of a large oyster; dip in beaten egg; roll in cracker
crumbs, seasoned with salt and pepper; fry in hot butter, or drop in
hot lard, as you would doughnuts.



SWEET BREADS WITH PEAS.  MRS. E. S.

Parboil the sweet breads; cut in small squares; add to them a coffee
cup of cream, pepper, salt, and a tablespoon of butter.  Cook the peas
tender, and add them to the sweet breads.  Moisten a tablespoonful of
flour with a little milk; add, and boil up once or twice just before
serving.



A PICKLE FOR BEEF, PORK, TONGUE, OR HUNG BEEF.  MRS. JUDGE BENNETT.

Mix in four gallons of water a pound and a half of sugar or molasses,
and two ounces of saltpetre.  If it is to last a month or two, use six
pounds of salt.  If you wish to keep it through the summer, use nine
pounds of salt.  Boil all together; skim and let cool.  Put meat in
the vessel in which it is to stand; pour the pickle over the meat
until it is covered.  Once in two months, boil and skim the pickle and
throw in two or three ounces of sugar, and one-half pound of salt.  In
very hot weather rub meat well with salt; let it stand a few hours
before putting into the brine.  This draws the blood out.



TO CURE BEEF.  MRS. S. A. POWERS.

FOR FIFTY POUNDS.--Saltpetre, one ounce; sugar, one and three-fourths
pounds; coarse salt, three and one-half pounds; water, two gallons;
boil together; let cool; pour over meat.  Keep the meat under the
brine.



VEGETABLES.

"Cheerful cooks make every dish a feast."
                                                          --MASSINGER.


Always have the water boiling when you put your vegetables in, and
keep it constantly boiling until they are done.  Cook each kind by
itself when convenient.  All vegetables should be well seasoned.



BEETS.

Boil the beets in salted water until tender.  When cold, skin; cut in
thin slices, and dress with white pepper, salt, oil, or butter, and
vinegar; or pour over them a French dressing, and toss with a silver
fork until every piece is coated with the dressing.



STRING BEANS, WITH ACID DRESSING.  MRS. W. H. ECKHART.

Cook wax beans in salted water with a little salt pork.  When the
beans are tender, take out and drain.  Let a few bits of breakfast
bacon brown in a skillet, then put in a half pint of good vinegar and
a spoonful of sugar (omit the sugar if you prefer the pure acid); let
boil; add an onion, sliced fine; pour over the beans, and mix well
before serving.



BAKED BEANS.  MRS. S. A. POWERS.

Pick over and wash well one quart of small white beans; soak over
night.  In the morning, pour off the water and cover with cold water.
After boiling one-half hour, drain them, and cover again with cold
water.  Boil until cooked, but not broken.  Put them in a baking dish.
In the center place one pound salt pork (which has been parboiled and
well gashed), one tablespoonful of molasses, one dash of cayenne
pepper, black pepper to taste, and, if necessary, a little salt.
Ordinarily the pork should salt the beans.  Cover with part of the
liquor in which the pork has been parboiled, and bake three hours.



COLD SLAW, WITH ONION.  MRS. E.

Slice cabbage fine on a slaw cutter.  To a dish of cabbage use one
large onion, also sliced fine.  Mix with good vinegar; salt, pepper
and sugar to taste.



CABBAGE.  MRS. W. H. ECKHART.

HOW TO BOIL.--Cut a large head of cabbage into quarters; then re-cut
the quarters, and wash well in cold water; pour boiling water over it,
and cover about five minutes; drain in colander, and add one
good-sized onion, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and enough meat broth to
cover it; boil until tender.  A brisket of beef is best for the broth.



CABBAGE.  MISS BERTHA MARTIN.

SCALLOPED.--Roll crackers as for oysters.  Cut cabbage as for slaw.
Put in your pan a layer of crackers, then a layer of cabbage, With
salt, pepper, and lumps of butter, until the pan is filled; cover with
sweet milk.  Bake thirty or forty minutes.



GREEN CORN PATTIES.  MRS. G. H. WRIGHT.

Take twelve ears of green corn (grated), one teaspoon of salt, and one
teaspoon of pepper; beat one egg into this, with two tablespoons of
flour.  Drop into hot butter or lard.



CORN OYSTERS.  MRS. G. H. WRIGHT.

To one quart of grated corn add three eggs, beaten separately; four
crackers, rolled fine; salt and pepper to taste. Fry in butter or
lard.



CORN OYSTERS.  MRS. J. C. WALTERS.

Grate and chop one pint of young sweet corn; add one egg, well beaten;
one teacupful flour, three tablespoonfuls cream, one teaspoonful salt.
Fry like oysters.



POTATOES "AU GRATIN."  JENNY E. WALLACE.

Take one tablespoonful of butter, and three tablespoonfuls of flour;
mix together on stove, and add two cups milk.  Chop fine cold boiled
potatoes; put in a baking dish; pour the dressing over, and add enough
grated cheese to cover it; bake about thirty minutes.



POTATO CROQUETTES.  MRS. F. W. THOMAS.

Take one pint of mashed potatoes; season with one tablespoonful of
soft butter, one-half saltspoon of white pepper, one-half teaspoon of
salt, one-half teaspoon of celery salt, a few drops of onion juice,
and some egg; mix well till light; rub through a strainer; return to
the fire and stir till the potato cleaves the dish.  When cool, shape
into balls, then into cylinders; roil in fine bread or cracker crumbs;
dip in beaten egg, then in crumbs again, and fry brown in hot fat.



WHIPPED POTATOES.  MRS. B. B. CLARK.

Instead of mashing in the ordinary way, whip potatoes with a fork
until light and dry; then put in a little melted butter, some milk,
and salt to taste, whipping rapidly until creamy.  Put as lightly and
irregularly as you can in a hot dish.



LYONNAISE POTATOES.

For lyonnaise potatoes chop an onion fine; fry it brown in a
tablespoonful of butter; add another tablespoonful to the iron spider
after the frying, and let the butter become very hot.  Then cut six
whole boiled potatoes into thick or half inch slices, and lay them in
the spider, which should be ample enough to hold them without lapping
over another.  Let them fry brown on both sides, tossing them
occasionally to prevent them burning.  Sprinkle a tablespoonful of
parsley over them, and serve at once.  They should be very hot when
brought on the table.



ESCALOPED POTATOES.  MRS. O. W. WEEKS.

Pare and slice thin the potatoes; put a layer in your pudding pan
one-half inch deep; sprinkle salt, pepper, and bits of butter over it;
then put another layer of potatoes, and another sprinkle of salt,
pepper, and butter, until you have as many layers as you wish.  Fill
in with sweet cream or milk until you can just begin to see it.
Sprinkle on top one cracker, pulverized.  Bake in hot oven from
one-half to one hour.



MASHED SWEET POTATOES.  MRS. W. H. ECKHART.

Pare and boil till done; drain, and mash smooth; add milk or cream,
and salt; beat like cake, with a large spoon--the more they are beaten
the better they become.  Put in a baking dish; smooth with a knife
dipped in milk; place a lump of butter in the center; sprinkle with
pepper, and place in a hot oven for a few minutes.



BROWNED SWEET POTATOES.  MRS. ECKHART.

Pare, and cut in halves.  Have in a skillet some hot fryings, in which
place potatoes; pour in about one-half pint of water; season with salt
and pepper.  Cook until tender.  Remove the cover, and let brown; take
out in dish; throw a spoonful of sugar into skillet, with a little
flour and water; let boil up once or twice, and pour over the
potatoes.



SWEET POTATOES, SOUTHERN FASHION.  MRS. W. E. THOMAS.

Boil your potatoes until soft; slice them, and lay in a buttered
pudding dish.  Sprinkle each layer with light brown sugar; and dot
thickly with bits of butter.  Over all pour enough water to cover well
the bottom of your dish.  Set in oven and bake half an hour or more,
thoroughly browning the top, and cooking the sugar, butter and water
into a rich syrup.  Some add, also, a dash of flour between the
layers.  Serve hot with your meat and other vegetables.



DRIED PUMPKIN.  MRS. J. EDD THOMAS.

Stew pumpkin as for pie; spread upon plates, and dry in the oven
carefully.  When you wish to make pie, soak over night; then proceed
as you would with fresh pumpkin.  Pumpkin prepared in this way will
keep well until spring, and pies are as good as when made with fresh
pumpkin.



STEWED RICE.  MRS. EDWARD E. POWERS.

Take one-half cup of rice; wash it twice; cover with water two inches
above rice; cook dry; then cover with a cup or more of milk; add
butter the size of a walnut, and salt to taste.  When cooked dry
again, serve hot with cream and sugar.



NEW ENGLAND SUCCOTASH.  MRS. S. A. POWERS.

Take two quarts shelled Lima beans (green), one dozen ears of corn
(cut off cob), and one pound pickled pork.  Cover pork with water, and
parboil it; add beans cooked until they burst; then add corn, two
tablespoonfuls sugar, butter the size of a walnut, and pepper to
taste.  After corn is added, watch carefully to keep from scorching.



TURNIPS.  M. E. WRIGHT.

Put one-half teacup of butter in your kettle, and let it get hot; then
add one tablespoon sugar.  Have your turnips sliced fine; put them in
your kettle and stir well; add enough water to stew tender; then
sprinkle over them one tablespoon of flour and a little rich cream.
Stir well, and serve.  Sweet potatoes are excellent cooked the same
way.



TO STEW TURNIP.  MRS. ECKHART.

Pare, halve, and slice them on a slaw cutter; boil in clear water.
When tender, add a large lump of butter, a teaspoonful of sugar, and
pepper and salt to taste.  Stir in flour and cream to thicken like
peas.  Serve in sauce dishes.



TOMATO MACARONI.  EXCHANGE.

Break macaroni in pieces three inches long and boil until tender.
Butter a deep dish, and place a layer of pared and sliced tomatoes on
the bottom (if canned, use them just as they come from the can); add a
layer of the stewed macaroni, and season with salt, pepper, and bits
of butter; add another layer of tomato, and so on until the dish is as
full as desired.  Place a layer of cracker crumbs on top, with bits of
butter.  Bake about thirty minutes, or until well browned.



EGGS.

Humpty Dumpty sat on the wall.
Humpty Dumpty had a great fall.
All the kings horses and all the kings men
Could not set Humpty Dumpty back again.
                                                       --MOTHER GOOSE.


Try the freshness of eggs by putting them into cold water; those that
sink the soonest are the freshest.

Never attempt to boil an egg without watching the timepiece.  Put the
eggs in boiling water.  In three minutes eggs will boil soft; in four
minutes the white part will be cooked; in ten minutes they will be
hard enough for salad.



HOW TO PRESERVE.  MRS. M. UHLER.

To each pailful of water add two pints of fresh slaked lime and one
pint of common salt; mix well.  Fill your barrel half full with this
fluid, put your eggs down in it any time after June, and they will
keep two years if desired.



SOFT BOILED EGGS.  MRS. W. E. THOMAS.

Put eggs in a bowl or pan; pour boiling water over them until they are
well covered; let stand ten minutes; pour off water, and again cover
with boiling water.  If you like them quite soft, eat immediately
after pouring on second water; if you like them harder, leave them in
longer.  This method makes the white more jelly-like and digestible.



FRENCH OMELETTE.  GERTRUDE DOUGLAS WEEKS.

Take eight eggs, well beaten separately; add to the yolks eight
tablespoonfuls of sweet milk, one tablespoonful of flour, one
teaspoonful of good baking powder, salt and pepper; beat well
together, and then stir in lightly at the last the beaten whites.
Have ready a skillet with melted butter, smoking hot, and pour in
mixture.  Let cook on bottom; then put in oven from five to ten
minutes.  Serve at once.



OMELETTE.  MRS. H. T. VAN FLEET.

To the well beaten yolks of five eggs add two teaspoonfuls of corn
starch, and a little salt dissolved in one-half cup of milk.  Beat
whites to a stiff froth, and stir lightly into mixture.  Have ready a
hot buttered spider, into which turn the whole, and bake to a light
brown in a quick oven.



PLAIN OMELETTE.  MRS. C. H. WILLIAMS.

Stir into the well beaten yolks of four eggs one-half tablespoonful of
melted butter, a little salt, one tablespoonful of flour mixed smooth
in one cup of milk; beat together well, and then stir in lightly the
whites, beaten stiff; pour into buttered skillet; cook on top stove
for ten minutes, and then place in oven to brown.



EGG FOR AN INVALID.

Put two tablespoonfuls of boiling water in a sauce pan on the stove;
break a fresh egg into it; stir briskly until the egg is slightly set,
but not at all stiff; season with salt, and a little pepper.  Serve at
once on a thin slice of buttered toast.



SARDELLED EGGS.  JENNIE MARTIN HERSHBERGER, TIFFIN, OHIO.

Boil some eggs hard; remote shells, and cut the eggs oblong; take out
yolks, and cream, or mash fine.  Then take sardells, and remove the
backbone; mash fine, and mix with the yolks of eggs and a little red
pepper, and fill the whites of eggs with the mixture.  They are fine
for an appetizer.  Sardells are a small fish from three to four inches
long, and come in small kegs, like mackerel.



STUFFED EGGS.

Boil eggs for twenty minutes; then drop in cold water.  Remove the
shells, and cut lengthwise.  Remove the yolks, and cream them with a
good salad dressing.  Mix with chopped ham, or chicken, or any cold
meat, if you choose.  Make mixture into balls, and fill in the hollows
of your whites.  If you have not the salad dressing mix the yolks from
six eggs with a teaspoonful of melted butter, a dash of cayenne
pepper, a little prepared mustard, salt, vinegar and sugar to taste.



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING.

"To make a perfect salad, there should be a spendthrift for oil, a
miser for vinegar, a wise man for salt, and a madcap to stir the
ingredients up, and mix them well together."
                                                    -- SPANISH PROVERB


It is said that "Any fool can make a salad," but all salads are not
made by fools.  "Mixing" comes by intuition, and the successful cooks
use the ingredients, judgment, and their own tastes, rather than the
recipe.

Any number of salads and fillings for sandwiches for home use, teas or
receptions, can be made at little cost and trouble, by using the
following simple recipe for dressing.  The secret of success of the
dressing lies in the mixing of the ingredients:

Powder the cold yolks of four hard boiled eggs; then stir in one
tablespoon even full of common mustard, one-half teaspoonful of salt,
and two heaping tablespoonfuls of pulverized sugar.  When mixed
thoroughly, add three tablespoonfuls of good table oil, and stir
rapidly for three minutes; then add six tablespoonfuls of good, sharp
vinegar, and stir for five minutes.  Now you will have dressing
sufficient for a dozen or fifteen plates of salad, and one that will
keep in a cool place for weeks.



LETTUCE SALAD.

Add to the above dressing just before serving, one pound of crisp
lettuce, cut in one-half inch squares, or sliced fine.  Garnish the
dish or dishes with the white of the egg, chopped fine, to which add
the thin slices of two or three small radishes.



LOBSTER SALAD.

Take one pound of fresh or canned lobster, two small onions, one
fourth of a lemon (with rind), two bunches of celery, or a like amount
of crisp cabbage; chop fine, and thoroughly mix with the dressing.
Serve on a lettuce leaf in individual dishes; garnish with the white
of the eggs, chopped fine.

Veal, chicken, terrapin, salmon, little-neck clams, scollops, etc.,
can be utilized by the judicious cook in connection with the dressing.



SANDWICH FILLING.

Take ham, veal, chicken, sardines, etc., with the white of the eggs,
chopped exceedingly fine, and mixed with sufficient of the dressing to
make a paste the consistency of butter; spread this on thin slices of
bread, cut in irregular shapes, and you have most delicious
sandwiches.

Dedicated to the Committee, by
Yours respectfully,
H. M. STOWE.



CHICKEN SALAD.  MRS. JOHN LANDON.

Take white and choice dark meat of a cold boiled chicken or turkey,
three-quarters same bulk of chopped celery or cabbage, and a few
cucumber pickles, chopped well and mixed together.  For the dressing
take the yolks of two hard boiled eggs, rub to a fine powder; mix with
it a teaspoonful of salt, teaspoonful pepper, teaspoonful mustard, two
teaspoonfuls white sugar; then add three teaspoonfuls salad oil, and,
last of all, one-half cup vinegar.   Pour the dressing over the
chopped meat, cabbage, etc., and stir all well together.



CHICKEN SALAD.  MRS. A. A. LUCAS.

Take two large chickens; boil tender; pick in small bits.  Chop as
much celery as you have meat.  For the dressing, take six yolks and
one whole egg; beat to a froth, mix with two spoonfuls of salad oil,
one spoonful mixed mustard, a little pepper and salt, one pint
vinegar, heated; before it boils, stir in the other ingredients; cook
till thick, stirring all the time.  Boil down the liquid in which the
chickens were cooked until it forms a jelly.  Let all cool.  Two or
three hours before using, mix meat, celery, liquid, and dressing.



CHICKEN SALAD.  MRS. G. H. WRIGHT.

Two chickens, boiled tender and minced fine, five hard boiled eggs,
and one raw egg.  Take as much chopped cabbage as you have minced
chicken; chop the whites of the boiled eggs, and put with the chicken.
Mix the cooked yolks with the raw egg; add one teacup of the broth and
oil from the chicken; one pint of good vinegar, salt, pepper, mustard,
and season to taste.  Part celery and part cabbage can be used, if
desired.  Mix all together.



CHICKEN SALAD FOR TWO HUNDRED.  MRS. W. H. ECKHART.

Thirty chickens, cooked and cut medium fine, fifty heads of celery,
two gallons of good strong vinegar, three pounds of light brown sugar,
ten cents worth of yellow mustard, three pounds of butter, four dozen
eggs, boiled hard.  Chop whites, and cream yolks with butter.  Boil
vinegar and sugar together, and skim; add the creamed butter and
yolks; also, mustard, salt and pepper to taste; let stand until cold;
then pour over the celery and chicken; mix thoroughly, and add the
whites of eggs.  If unable to get celery, use crisp cabbage, with ten
cents worth of celery seed.  If you use celery seed, boil it in the
vinegar.



CHICKEN SALAD.  MRS. T. H. B. BEALE.

Shred cold boiled chicken, and measure one pint chicken and one pint
celery; season with French dressing as below, and keep on ice until
ready to serve.

FRENCH DRESSING.--One saltspoon of salt, one-half saltspoon of white
pepper, one-fourth teaspoon of onion juice, one tablespoon of vinegar,
three tablespoons of olive oil, or melted butter; mix in the order
given, adding the oil slowly. When ready to serve your salad, mix it
with the boiled dressing given below; arrange it, and garnish with
parsley.

BOILED DRESSING.--Mix one teaspoon of mustard, two teaspoons of salt,
two tablespoons of sugar, one-fourth saltspoon of cayenne pepper, one
heaping teaspoon of flour; mix well; then add one egg, well beaten;
and one cup hot water.  Put in double boiler, and boil ten minutes.
While it is cooking, add one-half cup hot vinegar.  When done, add one
tablespoon of melted butter, or Lucca oil, if prepared.  After it is
cooked, turn into a bowl; put on ice until cold; add to salad just
before serving. If you like filberts in the salad, pour boiling water
on them; let them stand a short time, then throw them into cold water;
remove the skins, break into halves; put into salad before you pour on
the boiled dressing.

For a company of seventy-five, use six chickens, and six times both
recipes for dressing, and three pounds of filberts.



BEAN SALAD.  MRS. W. E. THOMAS.

Cold cooked stringed beans, drained and dressed with a simple oil and
vinegar dressing, or mayonnaise, make an excellent salad.



TOMATO SALAD IN WINTER.  MRS. DR. FISHER.

Take the juice from a can of tomatoes, and with gelatine make it into
a jelly that will mold.  Lay a slice of this jelly on lettuce leaves,
and serve with mayonnaise.



CUCUMBER SALAD.  MRS. ELIZA DICKERSON.

Two dozen large cucumbers, six white onions, chopped fine; salt well,
and drain twelve hours; add white mustard seed and celery seed; cover
with strong vinegar.



POTATO SALAD.  MISS ANN THOMPSON.

The yolks of five eggs, five tablespoonfuls vinegar; cook until thick;
then, just before using, add three tablespoonfuls melted butter; beat
to a cream.  Put in pepper, salt, and mustard to taste, one onion
(chopped fine), and three-fourths cup of cream.  Slice potatoes thin,
and pour dressing over.



GERMAN POTATO SALAD.  MRS. BELINDA MARTIN.

After frying ham, put one-fourth cup of the hot fryings into a skillet
with one cup of good vinegar, one tablespoon of sugar; let boil a
moment.  Slice hot boiled potatoes into your salad bowl; season with
pepper and salt, and one onion, chopped fine.  Pour over this the hot
vinegar, and mix well.  Garnish with hard boiled eggs.  Early in the
spring young dandelions added to this are very nice.



POTATO SALAD.  MRS. DELL W. DE WOLFE.

One gallon cold and thinly sliced good potatoes, six small onions,
sliced thin.  Sprinkle very freely with salt and pepper.

DRESSING.--Yolks of nine fresh eggs, two teaspoonfuls of ground
mustard, a pinch of cayenne pepper, one cup of sugar, one cup of good
cider vinegar, one-half cup butter.  Boil the above mixture, and add
one pint of thick sweet cream when the mixture is almost cold.  Two
small cucumbers sliced will greatly improve this salad.



CABBAGE SALAD.  MRS. G. H. WRIGHT.

One small head of cabbage (cut fine), one pint of good vinegar, butter
the size of an egg, three eggs, well beaten with one tablespoon of
flour; salt and pepper to taste.  Let dressing come to a boil, and
pour over cabbage while hot.



POTATO SALAD DRESSING.  MRS. E. A. SEFFNER.

Add the well beaten yolks of five eggs to five tablespoonfuls of
boiling vinegar; cook until it thickens, stirring constantly.  Remove
from the fire.  Add two tablespoonfuls butter, and stir until cool.
Season with one teaspoon mustard, one of salt, one tablespoon of
sugar, pinch of cayenne pepper, one cup of cream.  Use oil in place of
butter, if preferred.



SALAD DRESSING.  MRS. CHAS. MOORE.

Beat three eggs, and add a teaspoon each of salt, pepper, and mustard;
six tablespoons of cream or milk, small half teacup of vinegar, and
one-half cup sugar; mix thoroughly and set in top of teakettle,
stirring constantly till it thickens.



WEYMOUTH SALAD DRESSING.  MRS. VOSE.

Yolk of one egg, one tablespoon sugar, one saltspoon salt, one
teaspoon mustard, butter size of small egg, one-half cup of vinegar;
cook till thick as cream.  Add one-half cup of thick cream before
using.



MAYONNAISE DRESSING.  MRS. T. H. LINSLEY.

Take the yolks of six eggs, one teacup best cider vinegar, one teacup
white sugar, one tablespoon pure mustard, one-fourth pound of butter,
one teaspoon salt, one pint water, two tablespoons corn starch.  Put
the water and vinegar in granite iron vessel, and let come to a boil.
Beat the rest of the ingredients to a cream; stir this into the
vinegar rapidly to prevent burning.  Put in self-sealing can, and keep
in a cool place.



PUDDINGS

"The proof of the pudding lies in the eating."



APPLE PUDDING.  MRS. G. H. WRIGHT.

Six good-sized apples, stewed and well beaten; six eggs, beaten
separately; one pint of sweet cream; sweeten and flavor to taste.
Bake with an under crust.  It can be eaten with whipped cream and is
excellent.



APPLE BATTER PUDDING.  MISS KITTIE M. SMITH.

Mix together one cup flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder, a pinch
of salt; into this rub one tablespoonful of butter.  Beat one egg, and
stir into it half a cup of milk; add this to the flour, etc.  Pare and
slice two sour apples, and press into the dough. Bake about one-half
hour. The beauty of this pudding is that you are always sure of
success.  This recipe makes enough for a family of four.

SAUCE.--One cup of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of butter, two
tablespoonfuls of flour, three gills of boiling water; boil three
minutes; flavor to taste.



APPLE ROLL.  MRS. W. H. ECKHART.

Roll plain pie crust as you would for pie, but a little larger; chop
up some apples, and cover this crust; add a layer of sugar, and
sprinkle with cinnamon; then add a layer of raisins, and sprinkle with
bits of citron, chopped fine.  Roll all up; pinch the crust closely
together at sides and ends; place in dripping pan with one-half a cup
of butter, and one cup of sugar; pour enough boiling water over it to
half cover the roll; put in oven and bake three hours; baste every
half hour as you would turkey.  When done, the roll will have a crust
like taffy.  Take out, and serve sliced thin.  It is delicious.



BIRDS NEST PUDDING.  MRS. JOHN KISHLER.

Pare six or eight large good cooking apples; remove the core by
cutting from the end into the middle, so as to leave the apple whole;
place them in a deep pie dish, as near together as they can stand,
with the opening upward.  Make a thin batter, using one quart of milk,
three eggs, and sufficient flour; pour this into the dish around the
apples and into the cavities.  Bake in a quick oven.  Serve with
butter and sugar.



CHOCOLATE PUDDING.  MRS. ALICE KRANER.

Mix one pint of rolled crackers, four tablespoonfuls of chocolate, and
one quart sweet milk; bake two hours, and serve with this--

SAUCE.--Beat one cup of sugar with butter the size of an egg; flavor
with vanilla.



COTTAGE PUDDING.  MRS. JENNIE KRAUSE.

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of milk, one and one-half cups of
flour; and one tablespoonful of butter; bake as a cake, and serve with
this--

SAUCE.--Two tablespoonfuls butter, one cup white sugar, and one
tablespoon flour, wet in cold water; one pint of boiling water.  Let
boil two or three minutes, stirring all the time.  Flavor with lemon.



CUP PUDDING.  MRS. G. A. LIVINGSTON.

One egg, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, three tablespoons butter,
one-half to three-fourths pint of water, one and one-half teacups of
flour, or enough to make a thin batter, one and one-half teaspoons
baking powder; mix with fresh fruit or raisins, and steam twenty
minutes.



CORN STARCH PUDDING.  NELLIE LINSLEY.

One pint sweet milk, whites of three eggs, two tablespoons corn
starch, three tablespoons sugar, and a little salt.  Put milk in
kettle, and when it reaches the boiling point, add sugar, and the corn
starch, dissolved in a little milk.  Lastly, add the whites of eggs,
whipped to a stiff froth.  Beat it, and let cook a few minutes.  Set
two-thirds in a cool place, flavoring it with vanilla.  To the
remaining one-third, add half a cake of chocolate, softened and
mashed.  Put a layer of half the white pudding into the mold; over
this the layer of chocolate, and then the remainder of the white.
One-half a cocoanut or one-half a pineapple may be substituted for the
chocolate.



GOLDEN PUDDING.  MRS. FRED. SCHAEFFER.

One-half a cup of molasses, one-half a cup of butter, one-half a cup
of sour milk, one and one-half cups of flour, one egg, a pinch of
salt, and one-half teaspoonful of soda; mix, and steam two hours.
Serve with this--

SAUCE.--One egg, one-half cup butter, one cup sugar, two tablespoons
flour, and one pint boiling water.  Flavor with vanilla.



STEAMED INDIAN PUDDING.  R. H. JOHNSON.

One-half cup sour milk, two eggs (beaten stiff), one teaspoonful soda,
one cup seeded raisins, two tablespoonfuls molasses, corn meal for a
stiff batter; mix, and steam two hours.  Serve with this--

SAUCE.--One cup sugar, one-half cup butter (beaten to a cream) one
teaspoonful water, yolk of one egg; heat to a scald; add the white of
egg, well beaten, with a pinch of salt; flavor with lemon.



BAKED INDIAN PUDDING.  MRS. M. B. VOSE.

Scald one pint of milk; stir into it one-half cup of Indian meal,
one-half cup molasses, and a pinch of salt.  When this is cold, pour
over it, without stirring, one pint of cold milk.  Bake in a slow oven
about four hours to obtain the color and flavor of the old-fashioned
pudding.



BAKED INDIAN PUDDING.  MRS. M. B. VOSE.

Scald one quart of milk; stir in three-fourths cup of Indian meal,
one-third cup molasses, and a pinch of salt.  Beat two eggs with a
half cup of cold milk, and fill the dish.  Bake one hour.



FRUIT PUDDING.  MRS. W. H. ECKHART.

One quart of flour, one egg, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one
teaspoonful sugar, butter size of an egg, a little salt; mix with
milk, and roll as for pie crust; cut into pieces four inches square;
in each piece put half of an apple or peach (pared); pinch the corners
together; place in a buttered pan.  On top of each dumpling put a lump
of butter, a little cinnamon, and sugar.  Pour into the pan one-half
pint of water.  Bake, and serve with sweetened milk or cream.



FIG PUDDING.  MRS. B. B. CLARK.

One-half pound figs, one-fourth pound grated bread, two and one-half
ounces powdered sugar, three ounces butter, two eggs, one cup milk.
Chop the figs fine; and mix first with the butter; add the other
ingredients by degrees.  Put in a buttered mold, sprinkle with bread
crumbs, cover tightly, and boil for three hours.



FRUIT PUDDING.  MISS ANN THOMPSON.

One egg, six even tablespoonfuls sugar, six heaping tablespoonfuls
flour, one heaping tablespoonful baking powder, milk to make batter a
little thinner than cake dough.  Put fruit in baking dish; pour the
batter over it, and bake.



ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING.  MRS. W. C. BUTCHER.

Four cups of flour, four [one?] cups of sweet milk, one-half cup of
sugar, one half cup of molasses, three-fourths cup of chopped suet,
one cup of raisins, one-half cup of currants, one small teaspoonful of
salt, one heaping teaspoon of cinnamon, one heaping teaspoon of
cloves, one-half a nutmeg, and one teaspoon of soda; steam three
hours.  This can be kept any length of time.  When ready to use, cut
off slices and steam one-half hour.



ORANGE PUDDING.  MRS. W. C. RAPP AND MISS NELLIE LINSLEY.

Seed and slice five large oranges; pour over them a cup of sugar.
Take one pint of boiling milk; add yolks of three eggs, one-half cup
of sugar, a tablespoon of corn starch; boil until it thickens; when
nearly cold, pour over the oranges.  Beat whites of the eggs with a
little sugar; spread over the top, and brown in oven.



OCEANICA PUDDING.  MRS. NED THATCHER.

One pint of bread crumbs, one quart of milk, one cup of sugar, four
eggs (yolks), butter the size of an egg, grated rind of one lemon;
mix, and bake until done, but not watery.  Beat the whites of three
eggs with one cup of sugar, into which has been stirred the juice of
one lemon.  Spread over the pudding a layer of jelly and the whites of
eggs.  Replace in oven until a nice brown.  Serve with sauce.



PUDDING.  M. E. B.

One pint of flour, one heaping teaspoon of baking powder, one egg, a
pinch of salt, one-half a cup of butter, one-half a cup of sugar; mix
with water or sweet milk to form a thick batter.  Fill a pan one-half
full of fruit, sweetened with sugar, and pour the mixture over it.
Put pan in a steamer, and steam one hour.  To be eaten with sauce.



PEACH PUDDING.  MRS. J. H. REED.

Fill a pudding dish with peaches, cooked and sweetened; pour over them
a batter made of one pint of sweet milk, four eggs, one cup of sugar,
one tablespoon of butter, a little salt, one teaspoon of baking
powder, and two cups of flour.  Place in oven, and bake until a rich
brown.  Serve with cream.



COLD CUSTARD MADE WITH RENNET.  MRS. IRA UHLER.

Use a piece of rennet about the size of a half dollar.  Take two
quarts of good sweet milk, and warm it to the heat of new milk;
sweeten to taste; flavor with nutmeg.  Soak the rennet in three or
four tablespoons of warm water a few moments; then place it in the
middle of the pan of milk (with a string attached, and laid out over
the edge of the pan, so that it can be removed without breaking the
custard); set in a cool place until solid.  Serve with cream.  This is
a very delicate dish for invalids.



POTATO PUDDING.  MRS. J. F. McNEAL.

One and one-half pints of mashed potato, one teacup of sugar, one-half
cup of butter, one cup of flour, one quart of milk, four eggs, and
salt to taste.  Flavor with lemon, nutmeg, or vanilla.  Bake one hour.



QUEEN PUDDING.  MRS. T. J. McMURRAY.

One pint of bread crumbs, one quart of milk, one cup of sugar, the
yolks of four eggs, the grated rind of one lemon, and a piece of
butter the size of a hen's egg.  Bake like a custard.  When done,
cover with the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth with one
cup of sugar and the juice of the lemon.  Put back in oven, and brown
lightly.



RICE PUDDING.  MRS. ELIZA DICKERSON.

Wash a small cup of rice, and put into a quart of milk; season to
taste; add one cup of raisins, and set in oven three hours before
dinner.  When the mixture begins to brown on top, stir up from the
bottom, repeating this until the pudding is done.  If it becomes too
dry, add more milk.



PRESBYTERIAN PUDDING.  MRS. J. EDD THOMAS.

Stew prunes, or any small fruit, sweeten to taste, and while boiling
put in a few thin slices of white bread; when the bread is saturated
with the boiling juice, put the bread in alternate layers in a deep
dish, leaving a thick layer of fruit for the top.  Put a plate over
the top, and when cool, set on ice.  Serve with sugar and cream.
Whipped cream is preferable.



PEACH TAPIOCA.  MRS. S. E. BARLOW.

Cover one cup of "Farina" tapioca with a pint of water, allowing it to
soak until all the water has been absorbed. Open a pint can of
peaches, and pour off the liquor; add to this the tapioca, and cook
slowly over a moderate fire until the tapioca is clear and tender;
then stir in the peaches. Turn into a dish, and serve cold, with
powdered sugar and cream.  Cherries, unfermented grape juice, or
berries can be used instead of peaches, and will make a most delicious
dessert.



TAPIOCA CREAM.  MRS. O. W. WEEKS.

Soak one teacup of tapioca in water over night.  In the morning, set
one quart of milk in a kettle of boiling water, and let it come to a
boil.  Stir the yolks of three eggs into the tapioca, with one cup of
sugar; let it boil a few minutes.  Beat the whites of the eggs stiff
and put on the top of the cream.  Serve cold.



TAPIOCA PUDDING, WITH APPLES.  MRS. DR. FISHER.

Soak one teacup of tapioca and one teaspoon of salt in one and
one-half pints of cold water for five hours; keep in a warm place but
do not cook.  Two hours before dinner, pare and core six large apples;
place them in a pudding dish; fill the cavities made by removing cores
with sugar and a little grated nutmeg, or lemon peel; add a cup of
water, and bake one hour, turning the apples to prevent them drying.
When quite soft, turn over them the tapioca.  Bake one hour longer.
Serve with hard sauce of butter and sugar.



SUET PUDDING.  MRS. FRED. SHAEFFER.

One cup of molasses, one cup of sweet milk, one cup of suet (chopped
fine), or a half cup of butter, one cup of raisins, half cup of
currants, two and a half cups of flour, and a teaspoon of soda; mix
well; add a pinch of salt, one teaspoonful allspice, and one teaspoon
of cinnamon.  Steam two hours.



SUET PUDDING.  MRS. WILDBAHN.

One cup of suet (chopped fine), one cup molasses, one cup raisins
(seeded), one cup sweet milk, three cups flour, one large teaspoon
soda, a little salt; mix, and steam three and one-half to four hours.
Serve with drawn butter sauce.



STEAMED SUET PUDDING.  MRS. R. H. JOHNSON AND MRS. J. C. WALTER.

One cup of suet (chopped fine), one cup of sugar, one cup milk, one
cup chopped raisins, three cups flour, with two teaspoonfuls baking
powder, a little salt; spice to taste; mix, and steam three hours.

SAUCE.--One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter (beaten to a cream),
one tablespoonful of water, the yolk of one egg; heat to a scald; add
the white of egg, well beaten, with a pinch of salt.  Flavor with
lemon.



SUET PUDDING.  MRS. C. C. CAMPBELL.

Two cups or suet (chopped fine), two cups of stoned raisins, four cups
flour, two eggs, a pinch of salt, milk enough to make a stiff batter;
put in a pudding bag, and boil three hours.

SAUCE FOR PUDDING.--One cup of sugar, one half cup water, yolk of one
egg, one teaspoonful butter, one teaspoonful flour.  Flavor with
lemon.



SUET PUDDING.  MRS. P. O. SHARPLESS.

One and a half cups suet, chopped very fine and mixed thoroughly with
three cups of flour; one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one cup molasses
or sugar, and one cup sour milk.  If sugar is used, mix with the flour
and suet; if molasses, mix with the sour milk, to which add one
rounded teaspoonful of soda.  Add, at the last, one large cupful of
seeded raisins and one-half cup currants.  Steam at least two hours.



TROY PUDDING.  MRS. GEO. TURNER.

One cup of raisins, one cup of New Orleans molasses, one cup of beef
suet; one cup of sweet milk, three cups of flour, one teaspoonful of
soda, one teaspoonful each of ground cloves, ginger, and cinnamon,
saltspoon of salt; mix; pour in pudding pan, and steam from four to
six hours.  Serve very hot, with sauce to suit taste.  When taken from
steamer, set in oven a moment to dry the top.  This rule makes three
small loaves.  It will keep to warm over when needed.



PIES.

"Who dare deny the truth, there's poetry in pie?"
                                                         --Longfellow.
                                                                      
There are plenty of women capable of choosing good husbands (or, if
not good when chosen, of making them good); yet these same women may
be ignorant on the subject of making good pie.  Ingenuity, good
judgement, and great care should be used in making all kinds of
pastry.  Use very cold water, and just as little as possible; roll
thin, and always from you; prick the bottom crust with a fork to
prevent blistering; then brush it well with the white of egg, and
sprinkle thick with granulated sugar.  This will give you a firm, rich
crust.

For all kinds of fruit pies, prepare the bottom crust as above.  Stew
the fruit, and sweeten to taste.  If juicy, put a good layer of corn
starch on top of the fruit before putting on the top crust.  This will
prevent the juice from running out, and will form a nice jelly
throughout the pie.  Be sure that you have plenty of incisions in the
top crust; then pinch it closely around the edge; sprinkle some
granulated sugar on top, and bake in a moderate oven.



PIE CRUST.  MRS. ELIZA DICKERSON.

With one cup of flour, use one tablespoonful of lard, and a little
salt; cut the lard into the flour with a knife; use just enough cold
water to stick it together; handle as little as possible.  If wanted
richer, add some butter when rolling out.



CUSTARD PIE.  FLORENCE ECKHART.

PASTRY.--Take one cup shortening (lard and butter mixed); three cups
of flour, a little salt; sift the flour; add the salt, and rub in the
shortening.  Use enough ice water to hold all together, handling as
little as possible.  Roll from you.  One-third the quantity given is
enough for one pie.

FILLING.--Yolks of four eggs, one quart of milk, a little salt, and
one-half cup of sugar.  Bake with under crust only.  Flavor to taste.



ORANGE CREAM PIE.  MRS. P. G. HARVEY AND MRS. W. C. RAPP.

Beat thoroughly the yolks of two eggs with one-half cup of sugar; add
one heaping tablespoon of flour, and one even tablespoon of corn
starch, dissolved in a little milk; pour into one pint of boiling
milk, and let cook about three minutes; cool; flavor with extract of
orange, and pour into a baked crust.  Beat the whites to a stiff
froth; add one-half cup of sugar; flavor with extract of orange;
spread on top; put in oven and let it slightly brown.



CHESS PIE.  IVA FISH.

Three-fourths cup of sugar; butter the size of an egg, yolks of three
eggs, one tablespoon of flour, one pint of milk; flavor with nutmeg.
beat all well together; heat the custard to near boiling; fill pie and
bake.  Put white of eggs on top; sprinkle with sugar and brown in
oven.



CREAM PIE.  MISS LOURIE, NEW YORK.

One cup of sour cream, one cup of sugar, one cup seeded and chopped
raisins, one egg and a pinch of salt.  Bake with two crusts.



CREAM PIE.  MRS. A. C. AULT.

One cup of milk, one-half cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of corn
starch, yolks of two eggs.  Cook milk, sugar, and eggs together; then
stir in the corn starch, and put into baked crust.

MERINGUE.--Whites of two eggs, well beaten with two tablespoonfuls of
sugar.  Spread on the pie and bake a light brown.



CORN STARCH PIE.  MRS. E. A. SEFFNER.

One tablespoonful of corn starch, two tablespoons of sugar, two
tablespoons of sweet milk, yolks of two eggs; beat all together in a
warm crock; stir in a pint of boiling milk; let it boil up once; then
add a teaspoon of vanilla or lemon and a pinch of salt; pour this into
a baked crust.  Beat the white of eggs with a teaspoonful of sugar;
put over pie, and brown quickly.



CHOCOLATE PIE.  MRS. ALICE KRANER.

Grate a tablespoonful of Bakers chocolate in a dish; add one
tablespoonful of flour, the yolks of two eggs, and one-half cup sugar;
beat all together; add one pint sweet milk.  Bake with lower crust.
Take the whites of eggs for frosting.  This will make one large pie.



LEMON PIE.  MRS. SUSIE B. DE WOLFE.

Grate the rind and squeeze the juice from two lemons; add two and
one-half cups of boiling water, three cups of sugar, one-half cup of
flour, the yolks of three eggs, and one tablespoon of butter; cook
until thick and clear; put in pans prepared with pastry, and bake.
Beat the whites of eggs with a little sugar; put over top, and brown
lightly.



LEMON PIE.  MRS. H. A. MARTIN.

One lemon, the yolks of two eggs, one heaping cup of sugar, butter the
size of a walnut, three cups of water.  Grate the rind of the lemon,
and squeeze out the pulp and juice; add the other ingredients; put in
a stew pan, and let come to a boil; then stir in one large
tablespoonful of corn starch, wet with cream.  Bake crust first, and
turn in filling.  Beat up the whites of two eggs, with a little pulver
ized sugar added, and put over the top.  Put in oven, and brown a
little.



LEMON PIE.  MRS. E. HUGHES.

Grate the rind of one smooth, juicy lemon, and squeeze out the juice,
straining it on the rind.  Put one cup of sugar and a piece of butter
the size of an egg in a bowl, and one good-sized cupful of boiling
water into a pan on the stove.  Moisten a tablespoonful of corn
starch, and stir it into the water; when it boils, pour it over the
sugar and butter, and stir in the rind and juice.  When a little coo],
add the beaten yolks of two eggs.  Butter a deep plate, and cover all
over with cracker dust (very fine crumbs).  This is the crust.  Pour
in the mixture, and bake; then frost with the whites (beaten stiff),
and brown.



LEMON PIE.  MRS. JENNIE KRAUSE.

One heaping tablespoon of corn starch, one cup of boiling water, one
cup of sugar, one egg, one tablespoon butter, and the juice and rind
of one small lemon.  Make into custard, and bake with bottom crust.



LEMON PIE.  MRS. G. M. BEICHER.

For one pie, take one lemon, one cup of sugar, yolks of two eggs, one
cup of water, and two heaping tablespoons of flour.  After the pie is
baked, beat the whites of the eggs with one tablespoon of sugar;
spread over pie, and brown in oven.



LEMON PIE.  MRS. MARY DICKERSON.

One cup of sugar, one large spoon of flour, the grated rind and juice
of one lemon, two eggs, a piece of butter as large as a hickory nut,
and two cups of boiling water; make into custard, reserving whites of
eggs for the top.



LEMON PIES.  MARY AULT.

For three pies, take one lemon, one egg, one tablespoonful of corn
starch, one and one-half cups of sugar, one and one-half cups of
water; boil all together for the custard.

CRUST.--One cup of lard, and a little salt, to three cups of flour.



LEMON PIE.  MRS. FENTON FISH.

Beat thoroughly the yolks of two eggs with one-half cup of sugar; add
one heaping tablespoon of flour, and one even tablespoon of corn
starch, dissolved in milk; pour into one pint of boiling milk, and let
cook about three minutes; add to this the juice and grated rind of one
lemon, and pour into a baked crust.  Beat the whites to a stiff froth;
add one-half cup of sugar; spread on top.  Put in oven, and let
slightly brown.



MINCE MEAT.  MRS. R. H. JOHNSON.

Chop fine four pounds of good boiled beef (one tongue is better), one
pound suet, and eight apples; add two pounds of raisins (seeded), two
pounds of currants, two grated nutmegs, two ounces ground cloves, one
pound citron (cut fine), two pounds brown sugar, two tablespoonfuls
salt, one pint boiled cider.  This may be canned like fruit.  When
ready to bake pies, add a glass of grape jelly, diluted with water, a
little butter, a few raisins, and sugar if needed.



SUMMER MINCE MEAT.  MRS. G. A. LIVINGSTON.

Two teacups of sugar, one teacup of molasses, two teacups of hot
water, one teacup of chopped raisins, one-half cup of butter, one-half
cup of vinegar, two eggs, six rolled crackers or bread crumbs;
cinnamon, allspice, cloves, and nutmeg to taste.



MINCE MEAT.  MRS. B. TRISTRAM.

Three and a half pint bowls of chopped meat, two and a half bowls of
suet, four bowls of apples, three bowls of raisins (half of them
chopped), two bowls of currants, half a pound of citron (chopped very
fine), seven teaspoons even full of salt, four teaspoons cloves, six
teaspoons cinnamon, five teaspoons of mace, three nutmegs, four bowls
of granulated sugar; mix with sweet cider.



PUMPKIN PIE.  MRS. C. C. STOLTZ.

Two tablespoonfuls of cooked pumpkin, one egg, one-half cup of sugar,
one-half pint of milk, cinnamon and nutmeg to taste, and a pinch of
salt.  This is enough for one pie.



PUMPKIN PIE.  MRS. T. H. LINSLEY

One coffeecup of mashed pumpkin, reduced to the proper consistency
with rich milk and melted butter or cream, one tablespoonful of flour
a small pinch of salt, one teaspoon of ginger, one teaspoon of
cinnamon, one half nutmeg, one half teaspoon of vanilla, one half
teaspoon of lemon extract, two-thirds cup of sugar.

PUFF PASTE.--One third cup of lard, a little salt, mix slightly with
one and one half cups of flour, moisten with very cold water, just
enough to hold together; get into shape for your tin as soon as
possible.  Brush the paste with the white of egg.  Bake in a hot oven
until a rich brown.



BLUE STOCKING PUMPKIN PIE.  MRS. U. F. SEFFNER.

Steam Hubbard Squash, or good sweet pumpkin, until soft, and put
through a colander.  Put one-half cup of butter into an iron frying
pan over the fire.  When it begins to brown, add one quart of strained
pumpkin; let it cook a few moments, stirring all the time; put into a
large bowl or crock; add two quarts of good rich milk, eight eggs,
beaten separately, two large cups of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt,
one of pepper, one of ginger, one of cinnamon, one of cloves, one
grated nutmeg, and one tablespoonful of vanilla.  Bake in moderate
oven, with under crust only.  Brush the crust with white of egg before
filling.  This will make five pies.



PUMPKIN PIES.  MRS. E. FAIRFIELD.

One quart of pumpkin, one cup of Orleans molasses, one cup of brown
sugar, one pint of milk, three eggs, one tablespoon each of nutmeg,
ginger, and cinnamon, and one teaspoon of salt.  This will make two
large, or three small pies.



LEMON PIE.  MRS. P. O. SHARPLESS.

One lemon; grate the yellow rind and squeeze the juice.  One scant cup
sugar, two tablespoons of flour (rounded full), the yolks of two eggs,
beat until light; then add one and a half cups of boiling water, in
which has been melted a heaping tablespoonful of butter; lastly, add
three drops of vanilla extract.  When baked, cover with the whites of
two eggs, beaten to a stiff froth with four tablespoonfuls of sugar.
Return to the oven until it is a very delicate brown.  This makes two
small pies, or one large one.



FIG TARTS.  MRS. T. H. LINSLEY.

Make a puff paste; roll about twice the thickness you would for pie.
Bake in forms cut with the lid of a pound baking powder can; score in
eight parts about one-half inch deep; turn every other one to the
center; pinch them together to hold the filling.

FIG FILLING FOR TARTS.--One-half pound figs; soak, and cut out the
stems; mince very fine.  To each cup of minced figs, put one cup of
sugar, and one-half cup of water; boil until it jells.  Fill the
shells, and put on top a soft frosting.



LEMON TARTS.  MRS. SUSIE SEFFNER.

One cup of white sugar, one grated lemon, whites of three eggs beaten
to a froth, and butter the size of a walnut.  Put on stove; let come
to a boiling heat, but not boil.  Stir in whites of eggs the last
thing, and put in tart shells.



PUMPKIN PIE.  MRS. R. H. JOHNSON.

One-half pint of stewed pumpkin, one pint of hot milk, one cup of
brown sugar, one egg, one large tablespoonful of flour, one-half large
tablespoonful of butter, one-half teaspoonful of ginger, one-half
teaspoonful of vanilla.



PLUM PIE.  MRS. JULIA P. ECKHART.

Line a pan with puff paste; put in a layer of Damson plums; sprinkle
with cinnamon and sugar.  Put in the oven, and let it bake until the
crust is done; take from the oven; put on top a batter made from three
eggs, one cup of sugar, three tablespoons of cold water, one cup of
flour, one teaspoon of baking powder.  This is sufficient batter to
cover three pies.  Serve warm.



MOLASSES PIE.  MRS. L. M. DENISON.

One cup of sugar, one cup of molasses, one cup of cold water, one-half
cup of butter or lard, four cups of flour, one tablespoonful of
cinnamon, and one teaspoonful of soda.  Bake in crust as you would
custard pie.



RAISIN PIE.  MRS. J. M. DAVIDSON.

One teacupful of raisins (seeded and chopped), one cup of sugar, the
juice of one good-sized lemon, one cup of boiling water; set this on
stove; let come to a boil; then add four heaping teaspoonfuls of
flour, wet in a little cold water; after it boils again, put in a
small piece of butter and a little grated nutmeg; let cool before
making into pies.  This makes one very large pie.  By doubling the
amount, you can make three good-sized pies.  The filling will keep for
some time.



CHEESE.

"I will make an end of my dinner;
There's pippins and cheese to come."
                                                         --SHAKESPEARE


HOW TO MAKE A WELSH RARE-BIT.

One-half pint of grated soft cream cheese and one-half cupful of
cream, melted together in a sauce pan; add a little salt, mustard,
cayenne pepper, a teaspoonful of butter, an egg, or yolks of two.
Stir until smooth, and pour over the toast.



WELSH RARE-BIT.  MRS. W. C. BUTCHER.

Cut up one pound of cheese in small pieces, and place in a dish,
seasoning with salt and pepper; stir until melted.  Have ready toast
on a hot dish; cover slices with the melted cheese.  Serve hot, as a
relish.  This is used as a course before serving a dinner.



CHEESE FONDA.  MRS. W. C. BUTCHER.

Two scant cups of milk; add three eggs, beaten lightly; season with
one teaspoon of butter, salt, red pepper, and a pinch of soda,
dissolved in a little hot water; then add one cup of dry and fine
bread crumbs, and one-half pound of grated cheese.  The bread and
cheese should both be dry before grating it.  Put in a buttered dish,
with dry crumbs on the top, and bake in rather a hot oven.  Serve at
once.



CHEESE SANDWICH.

Heat two cups of milk and one of grated cheese; then add two cups of
fine bread crumbs, half teaspoonful of mustard, pepper and salt; mix
it well.  Spread thickly between thin slices of buttered toast.



CHEESE STICKS.

One cup of grated cheese, one cup of flour, a small pinch of cayenne
pepper, butter same as for pastry; roll thin; cut in narrow strips.
Bake a light brown in a quick oven.  Serve with salads.



CHEESE STRAWS.  MRS. FRED. SCHAEFFER.

One cup of flour, two cups of grated cheese, one teaspoon of salt, one
teaspoon of baking powder, and water enough to roll out like pie
dough; roll thin, and cut with pastry wheel in long, narrow strips.
Bake in quick oven.



CHEESE WAFERS.  FLORENCE ECKHART.

Take salted wafers, butter them on one side, and sprinkle thickly with
grated cheese.  Place in a dripping pan; put into a warm oven about
fifteen minutes, and serve with meats or salad.



CAKES.

"With weights and measures just and true,
Oven of even heat,
Well buttered tins and quiet nerves,
Success will be complete."


In making cake, the ingredients used should be of the best
quality--the flour super-fine, and always sifted; the butter fresh and
sweet, and not too much salted.  Coffee A, or granulated sugar is best
for all cakes.  Much care should be taken in breaking and separating
the eggs, and equal care taken as regards their freshness.  One
imperfect egg would spoil the entire lot.  Break each egg separately
in a teacup; then into the vessels in which they are to be beaten.
Never use an egg when the white is the least discolored.  Before
beating the whites, remove every particle of yolk.  If any is allowed
to remain, it will prevent them becoming as stiff and dry as required.
Deep earthen bowls are best for mixing cake, and should be kept
exclusively for that purpose.  After using, wash well, dry perfectly,
and keep in a dry place.  A wooden spoon or paddle is best for beating
batter.  Before commencing to make your cake, see that all the
ingredients required are at hand.  By so doing, the work may be done
in much less time.

The lightness of a cake depends not only upon the making, but the
baking, also.  It is highly important to exercise judgment respecting
the heat of the oven, which must be regulated according to the cake
you bake, and the stove you use.  Solid cake requires sufficient heat
to cause it to rise, and brown nicely without scorching.  If it should
brown too fast, cover with thick brown paper.  All light cakes require
quick heat, and are not good if baked in a cool oven.  Those having
molasses as an ingredient scorch more quickly, consequently should be
baked in a moderate oven.  Every cook should use her own judgment, and
by frequent baking she will, in a very short time, be able to tell by
the appearance of either bread or cake whether it is sufficiently
done.



DELICATE CAKE.  MRS. C. H. WILLIAMS.

One cup of white sugar, one-half cup of butter, whites of four eggs
(well beaten), one-half cup of sweet milk, two cups of flour, one
teaspoonful of cream tartar, and one-half teaspoonful of soda.  Flavor
with lemon.



WHITE CAKE.  MRS. ALICE KRANER AND MISS ROSA OWENS.

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, three
cups of flour, whites of five or six eggs, two teaspoons of baking
powder.  This is easy to make, and very good.



WHITE CAKE.  MRS. DELL W. DE WOLFE.

Two cups sugar, two-thirds cup butter, the whites of seven eggs (well
beaten), two thirds cup sweet milk, three cups flour, three
teaspoonfuls baking powder.  Bake in square or round tins.



WHITE CAKE.  MRS. WM. HOOVER.

Whites of five eggs, two cups of sugar, two-thirds cup of butter, two
and one-half cups of flour, one cup of sweet milk, two and one-half
teaspoons of baking powder.  Flavor to suit taste.



WHITE CAKE.  MRS. A. C. AULT.

Two cups white sugar, one cup butter, one cup sweet milk, two cups
flour, one cup corn starch, whites of six eggs, two teaspoonfuls
baking powder.  Flavor to taste.



SNOW CAKE.  MRS. JOHN KISHLER.

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup milk, one and
one-half cups flour, one teaspoonful baking powder, whites of four
eggs.  Flavor to taste.



LOAF CAKE.  MRS. JOHN LANDON.

Whites of five eggs, two cups of white sugar, one cup of butter, one
cup of sweet milk, two and a half cups of flour, one cup of corn
starch dissolved in some of the milk, half teaspoonful of soda, and
one teaspoonful of cream tartar.



SILVER CAKE.  MRS. JOHN LANDON.

Whites of eight eggs, two cups of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup
of milk, one cup of corn starch, two cups of flour, one and one-half
teaspoonfuls of baking powder; mix corn starch, flour, and baking
powder together; add the butter and sugar alternately, then the milk;
add the whites of seven eggs last.  Flavor to taste.



GOLD CAKE.  MRS. JOHN LANDON.

The yolks eight eggs, one whole egg, one-half cup of butter, one and
one-half cups of sugar, three-fourths of a cup of milk, two cups of
flour, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, and one-half teaspoonful of
soda.



ANGELS FOOD CAKE.  FLORENCE ECKHART.

The whites of ten eggs, one and a half tumblers of granulated sugar,
one tumbler of flour; a heaping teaspoon of cream tartar, a pinch of
salt.  Put through the sieve twice.  Take one-half of eggs, and stir
in one-half the sugar; beat until they have a gloss; then add the
other half of eggs, and the rest of the sugar.  Beat again; then add
the flour and cream tartar.  Stir up lightly.  Flavor with almond.
Bake one hour in slow oven.



ANGEL CAKE.  MRS. C. C. STOLTZ.

Whites of nine large or ten small fresh eggs, one and one-fourth cups
sifted granulated sugar, one cup sifted flour, one-half teaspoonful
cream tartar; a pinch of salt added to eggs before beating.  After
sifting flour four or five times, measure and set aside one cup; then
sift and measure one and one fourth cups granulated sugar; beat whites
of eggs about half; add cream tartar and beat until very, very stiff.
Stir in sugar, and then flour, very lightly. Put in pan in moderate
oven at once, and bake from thirty-five to fifty minutes.



ANGEL FOOD CAKE.  MISS NELLIE LINSLEY.

Whites of eleven eggs, one cup of flour, one and one-half cups of
granulated sugar, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, one teaspoonful of
almond extract, one-half teaspoonful of salt.  Sift sugar once; flour
three times; add cream tartar to flour, and sift three times.  Bake
forty minutes.



SUNSHINE CAKE.  MRS. FRANK ARROWSMITH AND MAUD STOLTZ.

Whites of seven small eggs, yolks of five eggs, one cup of granulated
sugar, two-thirds cup of flour, one-third teaspoon of cream tartar,
and a pinch of salt.  Sift the flour and sugar five times; measure,
and set aside, as for angel cake.  Beat yolks of eggs thoroughly;
then, after washing beater, beat the whites about half; add cream
tartar, and beat until very, very stiff.  Stir in sugar lightly; then
the beaten yolks thoroughly; then add flour and flavoring, and put in
tube pan in the oven at once.  It will bake in thirty-five to fifty
minutes.



COLD WATER CAKE.  MISS ANNA BARTH.

One and one-half cups of sugar, one-quarter cup of butter, two and
one-half cups of flour, two eggs, one cup of water, two teaspoons of
baking powder.  Flavor with vanilla or lemon.

Longest established in Marion--Jennie Thomas, milliner.



BRIDES CAKE.  MRS. J. J. SLOAN.

Two cups of butter, four cups of pulverized sugar, two cups of sweet
milk, two scant cups of corn starch, four heaping cups of flour,
whites of twelve eggs, one tablespoon of lemon extract, three heaping
teaspoons of baking powder.  Cream the butter and sugar; add the well
beaten whites; then the milk, the corn starch, and the flour in which
baking powder has been sifted.  This should be as stiff as pound cake.
Bake in a moderate oven.  It makes a very large cake, or two
moderate-sized ones.  Sometimes you will have to use more or less
flour, according to the size of your eggs.



SPONGE CAKE.  MRS. W. H. ECKHART.

The yolks of four eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of flour, four
tablespoonfuls of cold water, one teaspoonful of baking powder; add
the whites of four eggs.  Bake in a quick oven, but not too hot.



SPONGE CAKE.  MRS. HARRY TRUE.

One cup of sugar, one and a half cups of flour, three eggs, two
tablespoons of water, one heaping teaspoon of baking powder.



SPONGE CAKE.  MRS. P. O. SHARPLESS.

Four eggs, one and a third cups of sugar, three tablespoonfuls of
water, and two cups of flour, through which has been sifted two small
teaspoonfuls of baking powder.  Flavor with lemon extract.

The best cooks buy millinery goods of Jennie Thomas.



SPONGE CAKE.  MRS. T. H. LINSLEY.

One cup of sugar, one cup of flour, three eggs.  Beat altogether
fifteen minutes; add one-half cup of milk, and one teaspoonful of
baking powder.



LEMON CAKE.  MRS. T. H. LINSLEY.

Three cups of powdered sugar, and one cup of butter rubbed to a cream.
Stir in the yolks of five well-beaten eggs.  Dissolve one teaspoon of
salaratus in a teacup of milk; add this, and then the juice and grated
rind of one lemon, and the whites of the eggs.  Sift in as lightly as
possible four teacups of flour, and put in pan.  Bake about one-half
hour.



MARBLE CAKE.  MRS. C. H. WILLIAMS AND MRS. ELIZABETH McCURDY.

LIGHT PART.--One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter,
one-half cup sweet milk, one-half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cream
tartar, whites of four eggs, two and one-half cups flour.

DARK PART.--One cup brown sugar, one cup molasses, one-half cup
butter, one half cup milk, one-half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cream
tartar, two and one-half cups flour, yolks of four eggs, one-half
tablespoon each of ground cloves, allspice, cinnamon, and nutmeg.

When both parts are ready, drop a spoon of light and then one of dark
in the pan.



POUND CAKE.  MRS. U. F. SEFFNER.

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one pound of flour (sifted),
ten eggs (beaten separately), one-half teacup of rose water, one
nutmeg (grated), one pound of citron.  Wash the citron; chop it fine.
Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the rose water and nutmeg,
then the yolks of eggs, and part of the flour; then the whites of eggs
and remainder of the flour; lastly, the fruit, lightly floured.  Bake
in a moderate oven about two or two and one-half hours.  Line the pan
with white paper.



HICKORY NUT CAKE.  MRS. C. C. CAMPBELL.

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, three-fourths cup
sweet milk, three cups flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, two
eggs, one cup hickory nut meats.



MOTHER'S OLD-FASHIONED CAKE.  MRS. O. W. WEEKS.

One and a half cups of brown sugar, two eggs, one teacup of sour
cream, one even teaspoon of soda, about two and a half cups of flour.
If sour cream is not used, take instead one cup of milk, and one-half
cup of butter.



LOAF CAKE.  MRS. R. H. JOHNSON.

One pint bread dough; one cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one egg,
one-half teaspoonful baking powder.  Spice, raisins, and citron to
taste.



LOAF CAKE.  MRS. ELIZA BOWEN.

Mix one pint of milk with two quarts of flour and one cup of yeast,
let stand in a warm place all night.  In morning, beat until very
light four eggs, one pound of sugar, three-eighths pound of butter,
one teaspoon of salt, one teaspoon cinnamon, half a nutmeg; mix with
the dough thoroughly, and beat for a long time.  When raised again,
dredge with flour, a cup of seeded raisins, half a pound of currants,
one-fourth pound of citron; add to dough; put into the pan, and let
stand to rise again for half an hour.  Bake in an oven suitable for
bread.  This cake will keep a long time.



RAISIN CAKE.  MRS. FRANK ARROWSMITH.

Two cups of brown sugar, one scant cup of butter, one cup of sweet
milk, four eggs, one and one-half teaspoons of baking powder, three
cups of flour, one teaspoon each of cinnamon and cloves, one pound of
raisins.  This makes two cakes.  Pour boiling water on the raisins,
and let stand a few minutes before stoning them.



DRIED APPLE FRUIT CAKE.  MRS. W. H. ECKHART.

Take three cups of dried apples, and soak over night; then chop them
fine, and cook slowly for three hours in three cups of baking
molasses, stirring often; let cool over night.  Then take two cups of
sugar, one cup of butter, three eggs, four cups of flour, two
teaspoons of baking powder, two teaspoons of ground cinnamon, two
teaspoons of ground cloves, one grated nutmeg, two cups of raisins,
one cup of citron (cut fine), and one pound of figs (chopped).
Lastly, add the cooked apples.  Stir all together, and bake as you
would other fruit cake for two hours or longer in rather slow oven.

"ELECTRIC LIGHT FLOUR" is pure, white, and nutritious.



APPLE FRUIT CAKE.  MRS. T. H. LINSLEY.

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, two eggs,
one teaspoon of soda, three and one-half cups of flour, two cups of
raisins, two cups of dried apples, soaked over night, chopped fine,
and then stewed in two cups of molasses.  Beat butter and sugar to a
cream; add milk, in which dissolve the soda; then the beaten eggs, the
flour, and lastly, stir in well the raisins and apples.  Bake one and
a half hours.



COFFEE CAKE.  MAUD STOLTZ.

One cup brown sugar, one cup molasses, one cup boiling coffee,
one-half cup lard, one-half cup butter, one egg, one teasponful soda,
one teaspoonful salt, one tablespoonful cloves, one tablespoonful
cinnamon, one tablespoonful allspice, one tablespoonful vanilla, one
tablespoonful lemon, one nutmeg, one cup chopped raisins, four cups
flour.



COFFEE CAKE.  MRS. BECKIE SMITH AND MRS. JOSIE C. YAGER.

One cup brown sugar, one cup molasses, one-half cup butter, one cup
strong liquid coffee, one or two eggs, four cups flour, one teaspoon
soda, one tablespoon cinnamon, one teaspoon cloves, one nutmeg, one
pound raisins, one-half pound currants, citron as you like.  Mix the
cake part, adding soda last.  Dredge the fruit with flour before
putting in.  Bake in one large loaf, or two smaller ones.

Use "ELECTRIC LIGHT FLOUR" with these cake recipes.



COFFEE CAKE.  MRS. T. H. LINSLEY.

One cup butter, two cups brown sugar, one cup liquid coffee, six eggs,
one cup currants, one cup raisins, two teaspoons ground cinnamon, two
teaspoons ground cloves, one teaspoon soda, and three cups flour.



HICKORY NUT CAKE.  MRS. T. H. LINSLEY.

One cup butter, two cups sugar, five eggs, one cup sweet milk, one
pint hickory nut meats, one pound raisins or currants, one pound
flour, one heaping teaspoon baking powder.



HICKORY NUT CAKE.  MRS. W. C. RAPP.

Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, two
and a half cups of flour, three teaspoons of baking powder, two eggs,
and one pint of nut kernels.



RAISED CAKE.  MRS. JENNIE HERSHBERGER, TIFFIN, OHIO.

Three cups bread sponge, three cups sugar, one cup butter, three eggs,
one teaspoonful soda dissolved in a little water, one pound raisins,
one teaspoonful each of cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg, and allspice; flour
enough to stiffen.



FRUIT CAKE.  MRS. A. A. LUCAS.

One pound of brown sugar, one pound of browned flour, three-quarters
of a pound of butter, one cup of molasses, twelve eggs, two pounds of
stoned raisins, two pounds of currants, one-half pound of citron cut
in strips, one-half pound of figs chopped fine, one-half pound of
almonds chopped fine, two wine glasses of boiled cider, two ounces of
vanilla, one tablespoon of ground cinnamon, one small tablespoon of
ground cloves, one tablespoon of ground mace, one grated nutmeg, a
little pepper, and three teaspoons of baking powder.  Bake three
hours.



FRUIT CAKE.  MRS. T. H. LINSLEY.

One cup butter, one cup brown sugar, two-thirds cup molasses, three
cups flour, one-half cup sour milk, one cup raisins, one cup currants,
one teaspoon soda in milk, four eggs, citron and spice to taste.



FRUIT CAKE.  MRS. G. H. WRIGHT.

One pound flour, one pound brown sugar, one pound citron, two pounds
raisins, two pounds currants, three-fourths pound butter, one pound
almonds, one ounce mace, one cup molasses, one-half teaspoon soda
stirred in molasses, ten eggs.  Stir sugar and butter to a cream; then
add whites and yolks of eggs, beaten separately.  Stir in flour
gradually, and molasses and spices; lastly, the fruit.  This makes
three loaves.  Bake in a moderate oven.



FRUIT CAKE.  MRS. JOHN EVANS.

Two cups butter, two and one-half cups sugar, two and one-half cups
molasses, eight cups flour, two cups sour milk, eight eggs, two
teaspoonfuls soda, three pounds raisins, three pounds currants, one
pound citron, one pound figs, two lemons (grate the rind and squeeze
the juice), two glasses of jelly, cloves, mace, cinnamon, and nutmegs.
Mix flour and fruit alternately.  Bake three and one-half hours.



PLAIN FRUIT CAKE.  MRS. R. H. JOHNSON.

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, three cups flour, one cup water,
two eggs, one teaspoonful baking powder, one pound seeded and chopped
raisins; nutmeg, cinnamon, and citron to taste.



BLACK WEDDING CAKE.  MRS. J. J. SLOAN.

One cup butter, one and one-half cups brown sugar, one cup molasses,
one cup sweet milk, three cups flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder
sifted into flour, five well beaten eggs, two pounds raisins, one
pound currants, one-half pound chopped citron, one-half teaspoonful
ground allspice, one-half teaspoonful cinnamon, one-half a nutmeg.
Put flour in oven, and brown--be careful not to burn.  Dredge fruit,
and add last.



WHITE FRUIT CAKE.  MRS. SAMUEL SAITER.

Cream one pound butter and one pound powdered sugar together; to this
add the beaten yolks of twelve eggs, one pound sifted flour, and two
teaspoons baking powder.  Grate one cocoanut, blanch and chop one half
pound almonds; slice one and one-half pounds citron; add to batter and
stir in beaten whites of eggs.  Put in a pan lined with greased paper,
and bake two hours.  When cold, ice.

If you use "ELECTRIC LIGHT FLOUR" with the recipes in this book, you
have no trouble.



LAYER CAKES.



EXCELLENT WHITE CAKE.  MRS. W. C. BUTCHER.

Beat two cups of sugar and three-fourths cup of butter to a cream, and
then add three-fourths cup of water, three heaping cups of flour, the
whites of six eggs beaten to a stiff froth, three teaspoons of baking
powder, and one teaspoon of vanilla.  Bake in layer pans, and put
together with frosting.



WHITE LAYER CAKE.  MRS. A. C. AULT.

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup sweet milk, four cups sifted
flour, four teaspoonfuls baking powder, whites of four eggs.  Flavor
to taste.



YELLOW LAYER CAKE.  MRS. A. C. AULT.

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup milk,
one and one-half cups flour, one-half cup corn starch, two
teaspoonfuls baking powder, three eggs (separate whites).  Flavor to
taste.



BLACKBERRY JAM CAKE.  OZELLA SEFFNER.

Two-thirds cup of butter, one full cup of brown sugar, one cup of
blackberry jam, one-half cup of sweet milk, three eggs, two cups of
flour, two teaspoons of baking powder, one teaspoon each of cinnamon
and allspice, one-half teaspoon of cloves, one-quarter cup of chopped
citron, one cup of either walnuts or hickory nuts, vanilla flavoring.
Bake in layers and fill between with either frosting or fig paste.



BLACKBERRY JAM CAKE.  MRS. M. S. LEONARD, MRS. EVA L. FLETCHER, GAIL
HAMILTON.

One cup coffee A or light brown sugar, one-half cup butter, two cups
flour, one cup blackberry jam, three eggs, three tablespoons sour
cream, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cinnamon, one-half a nutmeg.
Put in the ingredients in the order given.  Bake in layers, and finish
with boiled icing.



BLACKBERRY JAM CAKE.  MRS. ALICE KRANER.

One cup brown sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup jam, one-half cup
seeded raisins, two cups flour, three eggs, two teaspoons baking
powder, four tablespoons sweet milk, one teaspoonful cinnamon,
one-half nutmeg.  Bake like jelly cake, with icing between layers.



GRAPE JAM CAKE.  MRS. J. EDD THOMAS.

This may be made like blackberry jam cake, only substituting grape jam
for the blackberry.



CHOCOLATE CAKE.  WINONA HUGHES.

One cup brown sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup sweet milk, two
eggs, two cups flour, one teaspoon soda dissolved in a little warm
water and then added to the milk.

Make a cream of one cup grated chocolate, two-thirds cup brown sugar,
one-half cup sweet milk, yolk of one egg, and one teaspoon vanilla.
Cook up until like cream, and mix into above cake.  Bake in slow oven
in two layers, or in one shallow pan; frost with a white frosting, or
the following--

CHOCOLATE FROSTING.--Put enough water over a cup of white sugar to
dissolve it; grate into it two squares of chocolate, and boil until
thick enough to spread.  Put on cake when cool.



CHOCOLATE CAKE.  MRS. HARRY TRUE.

One scant cup butter, two cups sugar, two cups flour, one-half cup
sweet milk, three eggs, two teaspoons baking powder, one-half teaspoon
vanilla; add a small quarter cake of chocolate, grated and dissolved
in one-half cup boiling water.  Allow this to cool before adding it to
the cake.  Leave out the white of one egg for icing between the layers
of cake.



CHOCOLATE CAKE.  MRS. JOHN D. STOKES.

Grate one-half cup chocolate; mix with one-half cup milk, yolk of one
egg, one cup pulverized sugar, one teaspoon vanilla.  Boil until
chocolate and sugar are melted.  Let this cool while making cake from
one cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup milk, two cups flour,
two eggs, two teaspoons baking powder; add to this the boiled
chocolate, and bake in layers.

FILLING.--Boil two cups granulated sugar and six tablespoons water
until it threads; then stir into it the whites of two eggs, well
beaten.  Flavor with vanilla.

Buy seasonable and stylish millinery of Jennie Thomas.



DELICIOUS CHOCOLATE CAKE.  MIRIAM DE WOLFE.

Three-fourths cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup sweet milk, three
scant cups flour, three teaspoonfuls baking powder; lastly, the whites
of five eggs, beaten to a stiff froth.  Bake in layers.

ICING.--Boil two cups of sugar to a taffy; add the white of one egg,
beaten to a stiff froth and one ten cent cake of German chocolate,
grated.  Beat the icing continually while stirring in the white of egg
and until it is almost cold.



CHOCOLATE CAKE.  MRS. J. C. WALTER.

One and one-half cups sugar, two-thirds cup butter, one teaspoonful
vanilla, two thirds cup milk, two cups flour, three level teaspoonfuls
baking powder, whites of five eggs, well beaten.

ICING.--One and one half cups sugar, one half cup milk (or a little
more), a lump of butter the size of a walnut, one teaspoonful vanilla.
Boil until waxy; remove from fire; beat until stiff.  Spread melted
chocolate on bottom and top of layers, and put the cream icing
between.



CREAM CAKE.  MRS. JOSIE YAGER.

One cup sugar, three eggs, one and one-half cups flour, three
tablespoons water, two teaspoons baking powder, flavoring to taste.
Bake in about three layers and put between them this--

CREAM.--Three-quarters pint milk, one egg, two tablespoons corn
starch, three tablespoons sugar.  Put milk on to boil; mix other
ingredients together; put in milk, and boil until it thickens.  Flavor
to taste when cool.



CREAM CAKE.  MRS. FENTON FISH.

Two tablespoons butter, two teacups sugar, three eggs, one-half teacup
sweet milk, two tablespoons cold water, two teacups flour, two
teaspoons baking powder.  Bake quickly in three or four round tins.

CREAM.--One-half pint milk, one-half teacup sugar, a small piece
butter, one egg, one tablespoon corn starch, boil until very thick.
When nearly cold, flavor with vanilla.  When the cakes are cool, put
them together with it.



CREAM CAKE.  MRS. NED THATCHER.

Two cups white sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup sweet milk, one cup
corn starch, two cups flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, whites of
seven eggs, beaten and added last.

FILLING.--Whip one pint cream; sweeten and flavor to taste, and spread
between layers.



CREAM CAKE.  MRS. G. H. WRIGHT.

Two cups granulated sugar, three-fourths cup butter, one cup sweet
milk, three cups sifted flour, three teaspoons baking powder sifted in
the flour, the well beaten whites of eight eggs.  Bake in three
layers.

One pint rich sweet cream, whipped with one small teacup sugar.
Flavor to taste, and put between layers.



CUSTARD CAKE.  MISS ANN THOMPSON.

Four eggs, one and one-half cups sugar, two tablespoons water, two
cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder.

FILLING.--One egg, one-half pint sweet milk, one-half cup sugar, two
tablespoons flour, butter size of hickory nut.  Flavor to taste.



LEMON CREAM CAKE.  MRS. C. H.

One-half cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup sweet milk, three eggs
(yolks and whites beaten separately), three cups flour, three
teaspoonfuls baking powder.

FILLING.--One cup sugar, two teaspoonfuls butter, two eggs, and the
grated rind and juice of two lemons; mix all together, and boil to
consistency of jelly.  Spread between layers, and dust powdered sugar
on top.



ICE-CREAM CAKE.  MRS. C. H.

One cup butter rubbed with two cups white sugar to a cream, one cup
sweet milk, three and one-half cups flour, three level teaspoons
baking powder, and whites of eight eggs.  Bake in jelly tins, and put
together with boiled icing flavored with orange.



ROLL JELLY CAKE.  GAIL HAMILTON.

Four eggs (yolks and whites beaten separately), one and one-half cups
sugar, one and one-half cups flour, two tablespoonfuls water, one-half
teaspoonful baking powder mixed with the flour.  Bake in dripping pan;
spread with jelly, and roll.



LEMON JELLY CAKE.  IVA FISH.

Yolks of three eggs, and one cup of sugar, well beaten; one cup of
flour, one heaped teaspoon of baking powder; about one-half cup of
water, a little salt, whites of three eggs, well beaten.

JELLY.--Juice and grated rind of one lemon, one cup of sugar, one egg,
one cup of water, one tablespoon of corn starch dissolved in part of
the water.  Put all together, and boil in a pail of water until it
thickens.



FIG CAKE.  MRS. C. C. CAMPBELL.

Whites of six eggs, two cups white sugar, one cup butter, one cup
sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, three scant cups flour.

FILLING.--One pound cut figs, one pint cream, whipped and sweetened.
Put a layer of fig; then one of cream.



NEAPOLITAN CAKE.  MRS. A. C. AULT.

DARK PART.--One cup brown sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup
molasses; one-half cup strong coffee, two eggs, two and one-half cups
flour, one cup raisins, one teaspoon each of soda, cinnamon, and
cloves, one and one-half teaspoons mace.

WHITE PART.--Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup sweet milk,
two cups flour, one cup corn starch, white of two eggs, one teaspoon
baking powder.



MAPLE CAKE.  MRS. C. C. CAMPBELL.

One cup sugar, two tablespoonfuls butter, two eggs (leaving out the
white of one), three-fourths cup cold water, two and one-half cups
flour, three teaspoonfuls baking powder.

FROSTING.--One-half cup maple syrup or sugar; boil to a taffy; pour
over the beaten white of one egg.



VANITY CAKE.  MRS. JOHN LANDON.

One and a half cups sugar, half cup butter, half cup sweet milk, one
and one-half cups flour, half cup corn starch, teaspoonful baking
powder, whites of six eggs; bake in two cakes, putting a frosting
between and on top.  Grate cocoanut all over.



DEVILS FOOD CAKE.  MRS. FENTON FISH.

Two cups darkest brown sugar, one-half cup butter, two eggs, one-half
cup sour milk, three cups flour, one pinch salt; mix thoroughly
together.  Take one-half cup boiling water; stir into this one
teaspoon soda, and one-half cup grated Baker's chocolate; stir into
batter.

FILLING.--Two cups dark brown sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup
sweet milk or cream.  Cook until it threads.



DEVILS FOOD CAKE.  MRS. G. H. WRIGHT.

PART I.--One cup brown sugar, three quarters of a cup butter, one-half
cup sour milk, two and one-half cups sifted flour, one level teaspoon
soda, yolks of three eggs, whites of two.  Stir this together, and
then add--

PART II.--One cup brown sugar, one-half cup sweet milk, one cup grated
chocolate, put this on the stove, let it dissolve, and add while still
warm to Part I.  Bake in two layers, and put icing between.



DELMONICO'S CAKE.  MRS. M. S. LEONARD.

One-half cup of butter, two cups of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of baking
powder, two-thirds of a cup of sweet milk, three cups of sifted flour,
the whites of eight eggs, beaten stiff.  Cream the butter and sugar;
add the milk; then the flour; beat thoroughly; then add the eggs; and
flour, with vanilla.

FILLING.--Two cups of maple or brown-sugar, one cup of milk, a lump of
butter the size of a walnut, a tablespoonful of vanilla, or any
flavor.  Boil till it gets like candy; beat to a cream.



ENGLISH WALNUT CAKE.  MRS. MARY W. WHITMARSH.

One and one-half cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup
of water, one and one-half cups of flour, one-half cup of corn starch,
two teaspoons of baking powder, the whites of six eggs.  Flavor with
lemon.  Bake in layers.

FILLING.--Two cups of light brown sugar, one-half cup of water.  Boil
until it threads, and stir in the whites of two eggs, beating until it
creams; them stir in one pound of English walnuts, chopped fine.



COLUMBIA CAKE.  OZELLA SEFFNER.

Two cups of coffee A sugar and one cup of butter creamed together; add
slowly one cup of sweet milk, three full cups of flour, in which three
teaspoons of baking powder have been stirred, and the whites of eight
eggs.  Flavor to suit taste.  Bake in layers, and put together with
boiled frosting and chocolate creams, or stir into the frosting one
pound of seeded raisins, or a glass of currant jelly.  Any one of
these will make a delicious cake.



FAVORITE SNOW CAKE.  MRS. CARRIE OWENS.

Beat one cup butter to a cream; add one and one-half cups flour, and
stir thoroughly together; then add one cup corn starch, and one cup
sweet milk, in which three teaspoons baking powder have been
dissolved; lastly, add the whites of eight eggs, and two cups sugar,
beaten together.  Flavor to taste.  Bake in sheets, and put together
with icing.



ORANGE CAKE.  MRS. CARRIE OWENS.

Two-thirds cup butter, two small cups sugar, one cup milk, three
teaspoons baking powder, the yolks of five eggs, three small cups
flour.  Bake in jelly tins.

FILLING.--Whites of three eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, juice and
grated rind of one orange, sugar to give the right consistency to
spread between the layers; put white frosting on the top.



TEA CAKE.  MRS. GEO. TURNER.

One egg, one cup sour cream, one-half teaspoon soda in one pint flour,
butter the size of half an egg, one cup sugar.

CARAMEL DRESSING.--One pint light brown sugar, butter the size of an
egg, one-half cup sweet milk.  Cream the butter and sugar; then add
milk, and cook until it hardens in water like taffy; beat until cool
enough to spread smoothly.



RIBBON CAKE.  MRS. LIZZIE MARTIN.

One small half cup of butter, one cup of sugar, two eggs, two-thirds
cup of water, two cups of flour, two teaspoons of baking powder.  Take
out two layers in tins; leave enough for a third layer, and put in it
one teaspoon of cinnamon, and one teaspoon of cloves.  Bake; put dark
layer in middle, and icing between all.



JELLY CAKE.  MRS. ELIZABETH McCURDY.

One cup sugar, two tablespoons butter, five tablespoons sweet milk,
three eggs, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cream tartar.  Flavor
with lemon.  Bake in layers, and spread with jelly.



ALMOND JELLY CAKE.  MRS. GEORGE KLING.

Three coffee-cups sugar, one heaping coffee-cup butter, and the yolks
of six eggs, beaten together to a cream; five even cups sifted flour,
four teaspoonfuls baking powder; one and one-half cups sweet milk; the
whites of the six eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and added last; with
one teaspoonful lemon flavoring.  Bake in layers.

ALMOND SAUCE FOR FILLING.--Three pounds almonds, blanched and pounded
to a paste, one and one-half coffee-cups fresh, pure sour cream, one
and one-half coffee-cups sugar, four eggs (whites and yolks beaten
thoroughly together).  Stir all together, and add vanilla enough to
drown the taste of sour cream.



WHITE LAYER CAKE.  MRS. MARY DICKERSON.

One-half cup butter, two cups sugar, whites of five eggs, one cup
milk, two and one-half cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one
teaspoon vanilla.



ICING FOR CAKE.  MRS. G. A. LIVINGSTON.

One cup sugar, one cup grated pineapple, one heaping teaspoon corn
starch, a pinch of salt; stir together well; add a small cup boiling
water.  Set on the stove, and boil until quite thick.  Let it cool
before using.



CHOCOLATE ICING.  ETHEL CLARK.

Beat together three cups of four X sugar; add the white of one egg,
beaten stiff; thin it with milk, so it will spread; melt one-fourth
cake of Bakers chocolate, and stir into the icing.



FROSTING WITHOUT EGGS.

One cupful of granulated sugar, five tablespoonfuls of milk.  Boil
four or five minutes till it threads from the spoon.  Flavor as
desired.  Stir till right thickness for spreading.  This is fine
grained, white, and delicious.



FIG FILLING FOR CAKE.

Stew one-half pound of chopped figs in a syrup made of one-fourth
cupful of water and half cupful of sugar.  Spread this when it is
quite thick.  It is excellent.  Another nice filling may be made by
using raisins instead of figs, treating them in the same way.



LEMON JELLY FOR CAKE.

Lemon jelly, to spread between layers of cake, or on the top of sago
or custard pudding, is made by grating the rinds of two lemons and
squeezing out the juice; add a heaping cup of sugar, a tablespoonful
of butter.  Stir these together and then add three eggs, beaten very
light; set the basin or little pail in which you have this in another
of boiling water; stir it constantly until it thickens.  When it is
cold, it is ready for use.



GINGERBREAD AND SMALL CAKES.



GINGERBREAD.  MRS. W. H. ECKHART.

One and one-half cups Orleans molasses, one cup brown or granulated
sugar, one-half cup lard, one cup boiling water, one teaspoon soda
dissolved in the water, two teaspoons ginger, one teaspoon each of
cloves and cinnamon, three cups flour, one egg.  Put all in the
vessel, excepting the water and egg; beat well; then add the water and
soda; after stirring this well together, add the beaten egg.  Bake in
quick oven.  Put greased paper in pan before pouring in the mixture.
Let cool in the pans.



SOFT GINGERBREAD.  MRS. E. A SEFFNER.

One quart of flour, one cup of sugar, one cup of molasses, one cup of
butter, one cup of sour milk, two teaspoonfuls of soda, three eggs,
one tablespoon of ginger, one teaspoon of cinnamon.



SOFT GINGERBREAD.  MISS KITTIE M. SMITH.

One cup New Orleans molasses, one teaspoon ginger, one teaspoon soda,
one tablespoon melted butter; stir this together; then pour on half a
cup boiling water, and stir in one pint flour.  Be sure and have the
water boiling, and beat well.  Pour into the pan one inch deep.



SOFT GINGERBREAD.  GAIL HAMILTON.

One-half cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup molasses, two and
one-half cups flour, one teaspoonful cinnamon, one teaspoonful ginger,
one teaspoonful cloves, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls soda in a cup of
boiling water (put this in last).



SOFT GINGERBREAD.  MRS. G. E. SALMON.

One cup molasses, one-half cup sugar, one-half cup butter or lard,
one-half cup sour milk, two and one-half cups flour, two eggs, one
teaspoon ginger, one teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon soda dissolved in
the milk.  Bake in a moderate oven about half an hour.



EXCELLENT SOFT GINGERBREAD.  MRS. CARRIE OWENS.

One and a half cups Orleans molasses, half cup brown sugar, half cup
butter, half cup sweet milk, teaspoon soda, teaspoon allspice, half
teaspoon ginger; mix all together; add three cups sifted flour, and
bake in shallow pans.



GINGERBREAD FOR TWO.  MRS. M. LEONARD.

Six tablespoons sweet milk, five tablespoons molasses, one tablespoon
of sugar, one-half scant teaspoon soda, one and one-fourth cups flour.



SOFT GINGERBREAD.  MRS. M. VOSE.

One cup molasses, one-half cup shortening, one cup sour milk, one
teaspoon soda, just a pinch of ginger, flour to make as stiff as
sponge cake.



FRIED CAKES.  MRS. J. C. JOHNSTONE.

Two cups of coffee A sugar, a small teaspoon of lard, one-half
teaspoon of ginger; rub all together; add two eggs, one cup of sweet
milk, three teaspoons of baking powder.  Mix in enough flour so you
can work it nicely on the board.  Cut out with cutter having hole in
the center.  Have your lard hot when you drop cakes in, and do not
turn but once.



FRIED CAKES.  MRS. LOUISE JONES.

One cup sugar, one cup sweet milk, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls baking
powder, two tablespoonfuls melted butter, flour enough to roll and
cut.



DOUGHNUTS.  MRS. G. H. WRIGHT.

One cup sugar, one cup sour milk, one level teaspoon soda in milk, two
eggs, butter or lard the size of a small egg, a little nutmeg, and a
pinch of salt, flour to roll out.  Cut in rings and fry in hot lard.



DOUGHNUTS.  MRS. R. H. JOHNSON.

One cup sugar, one cup sweet milk, two eggs, butter size of a small
egg, one teaspoonful baking powder, a little salt.  Mix in enough
flour to roll in your hand.  Always put a piece of apple or potato in
the lard when frying doughnuts.



DOUGHNUTS.  MRS. T. H. LINSLEY.

Yolks of four eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, a little
nutmeg, two teaspoons of baking powder; mix soft; cut out, and fry.



DOUGHNUTS.  MRS. A. C. AULT.

Two quarts flour, one cup sugar, one cup sweet milk, butter size of a
small egg, four eggs, five heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder.  Flavor
with nutmeg.



DOUGHNUTS.  MRS. M. S. LEONARD.

One and one-third cups skimmed sweet milk, one cup sugar, two eggs,
four teaspoons melted butter, four teaspoons baking powder.  Roll and
cut.



DOUGHNUTS.  MRS. P. O. SHARPLESS.

One cup sugar, two eggs, one pint equal parts sour cream and
buttermilk, one teaspoon soda, cinnamon and nutmeg to taste, flour
sufficient for a soft dough.  If sour cream is not at hand, use
sufficient shortening to make it equal.



DOUGHNUTS.  MAUD STOLTZ.

One and one-half cup sugar, two eggs, three tablespoonfuls melted
lard, one cup milk, one teaspoon soda.



DOUGHNUTS.  MRS. J. S. REED.

One cup sweet milk, one cup sugar, four eggs, two teaspoons baking
powder.  Beat the eggs and sugar well; then add milk and flour.  Mix
soft, not stiff.  Fry carefully.



CRULLERS.  MRS. C. H. WILLIAMS.

One cup sugar, three eggs, one-half cup milk, butter the size of a
walnut, three teaspoonfuls baking powder.  Fry in lard.



CREAM CRULLERS.  MRS. C. H.

One and one-half cups sugar, one cup milk, two eggs, butter the size
of an egg, two teaspoonfuls baking powder.  Mix in enough flour to
roll out soft.  Fry in hot lard.



SOFT GINGER CAKES.  MRS. J. S. REED.

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one cup of lard or butter, four
cups of flour, one cup of sweet milk, one teaspoon of salt, one
teaspoon of ginger, two teaspoons of soda, one tablespoon of cinnamon.
Bake in gem pans.  Add soda the last thing; beat well.



GINGER CAKES.  MRS. P. G. HARVEY.

One cup of brown sugar, one cup of molasses, one cup of lard, one and
a half cups of boiling water, one tablespoon of soda, one tablespoon
of ginger, four cups of flour; mix, and drop from a spoon into a
dripping pan.



CHEAP COOKIES.  MRS. BELLE BLAND.

One teaspoonful of baking powder mixed in flour, two cups of white
sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of sour milk, one teaspoonful of
soda dissolved in the milk, one cup of chopped hickory nuts.  Take
enough flour to mix very stiff, and bake in a quick oven.



COOKIES.  MRS. L. M. DENISON.

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, two eggs, one teaspoon soda in two
tablespoons boiling water, flavoring to taste, flour sufficient to
roll.



COOKIES.  MRS. JOHN LANDON.

One cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup cold water, one teaspoonful of
saleratus, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar, two eggs, flour enough to
roll, and no more.



COOKIES.  MRS. W. C. BUTCHER.

Two cups of sugar, three eggs, one cup of butter, one-half cup of
lard, four tablespoons of water, one teaspoon of soda, one teaspoon of
cream tartar, a pinch of salt, and nutmeg, or vanilla.



COOKIES.  MRS. P. G. HARVEY.

Two cups of light brown sugar, one cup of shortening (butter and lard
mixed), four eggs, one-half cup of boiling water, one teaspoon of soda
dissolved in water, flour to thicken, and roll.



COOKIES.  MRS. G. M. BEICHER.

Two cups sugar, one-third cup lard, and two-thirds cup butter; mix
like pie crust.  Three eggs, three tablespoons water, one small
teaspoon soda sifted with sugar; add enough flour to roll.  Roll very
thin.



CREAM COOKIES.  MISS KITTIE SMITH.

One egg, one cup sugar, one cup thick sour cream, a pinch of salt, one
teaspoon each of saleratus and cream tartar; mix soft, and bake in a
quick oven.



GOOD COOKIES.  MRS. L. A. JONES.

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda
in milk, yolks of two eggs, one teaspoonful baking powder in flour.
Flavor to taste.  Flour enough to roll thin.



GOOD COOKIES.  MRS. JENNIE KRAUSE.

Two eggs, one and one half cups brown sugar, one cup butter, three
tablespoons sour milk or cream, one teaspoon soda, one-half teaspoon
salt, one-half teaspoon lemon extract, flour enough to mix soft.



COOKIES.  MRS. H. A. MARTIN

One coffee-cup butter, one coffee-cup sugar, four eggs, four
tablespoonfuls sweet milk.  Flavor with nutmeg; mix soft.  Beat butter
and sugar to a cream first.  [RB:  2 teaspoons baking powder?]



COOKIES.  ANN THOMPSON.

One cup granulated sugar, one cup coffee A sugar, one-half cup butter,
two level teaspoonfuls cinnamon, one-half level teaspoonful cloves,
one-half small nutmeg; cream together carefully; add two well beaten
eggs.  Sift the flour, and begin with one pint, and two slightly
heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder; add more flour as you beat.  When
thick enough to handle, take a small piece in the hand, make into a
ball, and roll; then place in buttered pans.  Bake light brown in a
moderate oven.



SPLENDID EGGLESS COOKIES.  MRS. E. S. BOALT.

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup sweet milk, teaspoon soda, one
teaspoon vanilla, one pinch salt, just enough flour to roll them out.



HARD COOKIES.  MRS. SALMON.

One and one-half cups granulated sugar, one cup butter, three eggs,
one-fourth cup sweet milk, one-half teaspoon soda dissolved in milk,
flour enough to roll out thin; sift granulated sugar on top, and
gently roll it in.



COOKIES.  MRS. LIZZIE MARTIN.

One cup butter, one pint sugar, three eggs, three tablespoons water,
two pints flour, two teaspoons baking powder, nutmeg to taste.



MY GRANDMOTHER'S COOKIES.  MRS. J. EDD THOMAS.

Three eggs, two cups sugar, one cup butter and lard, two-thirds cup
sour milk, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cream tartar.  Flavor with
vanilla.  Use flour enough to roll.  Stir only with a spoon.



MOLASSES COOKIES.  MRS. C. E. MARTIN.

Whites and yolks of two eggs (beaten separately), one cup brown sugar,
one cup melted lard and butter, one cup New Orleans molasses, one
dessert spoon of ginger, one dessert-spoon soda, four tablespoons
boiling water, flour to stiffen.  Do not roll too thin.



GINGER NUTS.  MRS. BECKIE SMITH.

Two cups molasses, one cup sugar, one cup shortening, one
tablespoonful soda in a little milk, ginger to taste, flour to
stiffen, and roll.



GINGER SNAPS.  MRS. HARRY TRUE.

One cup molasses (scalded), one cup brown sugar, one cup butter, one
tablespoon ginger, two even teaspoons soda dissolved in one-fourth cup
water, flour to roll out stiff.



GINGER COOKIES.  MRS. JACOB HOBERMAN.

One pint of molasses, one cup of sugar, one cup of lard, one pint of
sour milk, one tablespoon of soda, one tablespoon of ginger, one
tablespoon of cinnamon, three eggs.



GINGER COOKIES.  MRS. CHAS. MOORE.

One pint New Orleans molasses, and one cup butter; let come to a boil;
take from fire, and cool, then dissolve an even tablespoonful soda in
hot water.  Pour into molasses, and stir.  Mix in enough flour to
roll, and two tablespoons ginger.



GINGER COOKIES.  FLORENCE ECKHART.

One cup brown sugar, one pint molasses, one-half pint lard, one-half
ounce alum, one-half pint warm water, one ounce soda, two tablespoons
ginger, flour enough to stiffen, and roll.  Beat an egg well, and
spread on the top of cakes just before baking.



SUGAR SNAPS.  MRS. SUSIE SEFFNER.

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three eggs, one teaspoon soda, one
tablespoon ginger.



SAND CAKES.  MRS. ABBIE A. LUCAS.

One pound corn starch, one-half pound butter, one pound sugar, eight
eggs, two teaspoonfuls baking powder.  Beat the butter and sugar to a
cream; then add one egg and a little corn starch alternately until the
whole is in.  Bake a light brown in patty pans, in a quick oven.  They
are improved by frosting.



COCOANUT COOKIES.  MRS. A. A. LUCAS.

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one-half cup sour cream, one-fourth
teaspoon soda, two eggs; mix as soft as you can; roll thin, and bake
quick.  Make an icing of whites of four eggs, one pound of sugar, and
as much grated or desiccated cocoanut as you can stir in.  Spread on
cookies after they are baked.



LEMON CRACKERS.  MRS. A. O. JOHNSON.

Three cups of sugar, one cup of lard, one pint of sweet milk, two
eggs, five cents worth of lemon oil, five cents worth of baking
ammonia.  Pound the ammonia fine, and pour on it half a teacup of
boiling water.  Mix as stiff as bread; roll out, and cut.



HICKORY NUT MACAROONS.  MRS. W. C. RAPP AND MRS. ABBIE A. LUCAS.

One cup of nut kernels (chopped fine), one cup of light brown sugar;
rub well together one-half cup flour, one egg (beaten light); mix
well, and drop with a spoon on buttered dripping pan.  Bake with a
slow fire.

Mrs. Josie Yager adds to this a pinch of baking powder.



HICKORY MACAROONS.  MRS. W. H. ECKHART.

Two eggs, two coffee-cups brown sugar, two cups flour, two tablespoons
water, one-half teaspoon baking powder, two cups hickory nut meats.



COCOANUT MACAROONS.  MRS. J. C. WALTERS.

Two-thirds cup white sugar, one-half cup water; boil as for candy;
remove from the fire; stir in one-half pound crystallized cocoanut;
then add by degrees the beaten whites of three eggs.  Mix thoroughly
with a spoon; drop and spread in small cakes on buttered tins; bake
until slightly browned.



CHOCOLATE MACAROONS.  MRS. ECKHART.

One cake German sweet chocolate, one egg, one cup sugar, one-half cup
milk, one lump butter size of a walnut.



HICKORY NUT COOKIES.  OZELLA SEFFNER.

Two cups coffee A sugar, three eggs, one cup butter, one cup sweet
milk, one pint nut kernels (chopped fine), two large teaspoonfuls
baking powder, one tablespoon vanilla, flour to roll out.  Bake in
moderate oven.



HICKORY NUT COOKIES.  ANN THOMPSON.

Two cups brown sugar, two eggs, one-fourth cup butter, two cups
hickory nuts, three tablespoons water, one teaspoon baking powder,
flour to stiffen very stiff.



HICKORY NUT CAKES.  MRS. O. W. WEEKS.

One cup meats, one cup sugar, one and one-half cups flour, one egg, a
pinch of baking powder; roll thin, and cut into small cakes.  Bake in
quick oven.



CREAM PUFFS.  MRS. T. H. LINSLEY.

Two cups water boiled with one cup butter, one and one-half cups
flour; let stand until cool; then stir in five eggs, one at a time;
drop on tins by the spoonful, and bake.  Open one side, and put in
this--

CREAM.--Two cups milk, one cup sugar, three eggs, and one-half cup
flour.  Cook like custard, and flavor with lemon.



KISSES.  FLORENCE ECKHART.

White of one egg (beaten stiff), one teaspoonful of baking powder to
the white of an egg; thicken with powdered sugar to drop from the
spoon; add one small cup of nuts.  Flavor to taste.  Drop on buttered
pans, and bake until light brown on top.



DELICACIES.

"Custards for supper, and an endless host of other such lady-like
luxuries."
                                                            --SHELLEY.


APPLE FLOAT.  MRS. M. E. WRIGHT.

To one quart apples, stewed and well mashed, put whites of three eggs
(well beaten), and four heaping tablespoons of sugar; beat together
for fifteen minutes.  Serve with cream.



FLOAT.  FLORENCE TURNEY.

One pint milk, one tablespoon corn starch, yolks of two eggs.  Beat
yolks, and add one tablespoon cream, one cup coffee A sugar.  Flavor
when cool.



FLOAT.  FLORENCE TURNEY.

Put two quarts of milk into a tin bucket, and place in a kettle of
boiling water.  While waiting for milk to boil, take the yolks of four
eggs, beat, and add one tablespoonful of cream or milk, one cup of
coffee A sugar, two teaspoonfuls of sifted flour; beat this to a
creamy mixture.  When the milk boils, take some of it, stir into the
mixture, and then slowly pour this mixture into the rest of the
boiling milk, stirring all the time.  Put on the lid of the bucket;
let boil for a few minutes.  Flavor with vanilla.  When cool, put in
dish.  Take the whites of four eggs; beat stiff; add granulated sugar;
beat quite a while.  Flavor with vanilla.  Spread this over the top of
the float, and on top of this put bits of jelly.



CHARLOTTE RUSSE.

A very nice recipe for charlotte russe made with gelatine is as
follows:  Use one pint of cream whipped till light, one ounce of
gelatine dissolved in one gill of hot milk, the well beaten whites of
two eggs, one small teacupful of powdered sugar, and any flavoring
preferred.  Mix the eggs, sugar and cream together, and then beat in
the dissolved gelatine.  The milk should be quite cold before it is
added to the other ingredients.  Line a dish with slices of sponge
cake, or with lady fingers, and fill with cream.  Set it on ice to
cool.



LEMON SPONGE OR SNOW PUDDING.  OZELLA SEFFNER.

One-half box gelatine, juice of three lemons, one pint of cold water,
one-half pint of hot water, two teacups of sugar, whites of three
eggs.  Soak one-half box of gelatine in one pint of cold water ten
minutes; then dissolve over the fire, adding the juice of the lemons
with the hot water and sugar.  Boil all together two or three minutes;
pour into a dish, and let it remain until nearly cold and beginning to
set; then add the whites of eggs, well beaten, and whisk ten minutes.
When it becomes the consistency of sponge, wet the inside of cups with
the white of egg, pour in the sponge, and set in a cold place.  Serve
with thin custard, made with the yolks of four eggs, one tablespoonful
of corn starch, one-half teacup of sugar, one pint of milk,
teaspoonful of vanilla.  Boil until sufficiently thick, and serve cold
over the sponge.



LEMON JELLY.  GAIL HAMILTON.

One-half box gelatine, one-half pint cold water, one-half pint boiling
water, one-half cup sugar, juice of two lemons.



ORANGE JELLY.  MRS. O. W. WEEKS.

Take six large, juicy oranges, one lemon, one pound loaf sugar,
one-half ounce gelatine.  Dissolve the sugar in one-half pint of
water.  Pour one-half pint boiling water over the gelatine, and when
dissolved, strain it.  Put the sugar and water on the fire.  When it
boils, add the gelatine, the juice of the oranges, and the lemon, with
a little of the peel.  Let come to a boil; then strain in molds to
cool.



ORANGE JELLY.  MRS. L. D. HAMILTON.

Soak one box gelatine in half pint cold water until soft, add one cup
boiling water, juice of one lemon, one cup sugar, one pint orange
juice; stir until sugar is dissolved; then strain.



ORANGE SOUFFLE.  MRS. GEORGE TURNER.

Pare and slice eight oranges, boil one cup sugar, one pint milk, three
eggs, one tablespoon corn starch.  As soon as thick, pour over the
oranges; beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth; sweeten; put on
top, and brown in oven.  Serve cold.



ORANGE CREAM.  MRS. S. E. BARLOW.

Take half a box of gelatine, and cover with eight tablespoonfuls of
cold water, and soak a half hour.  Stand the gelatine over the
teakettle for a few minutes to melt; then add it to a pint of orange
juice, and a cup of sugar, and strain.  Turn this mixture into a dish,
and stand in a cool place, watching carefully, and stirring
occasionally.  Whip a pint of cream to a stiff froth.  As soon as the
orange gelatine begins to congeal, stir in the whipped cream; turn
into a mold, and stand it over in a cold place.  Served with angels
food, it makes a most delicate dessert.



BAVARIAN CREAM.  MRS. CHAS. MOORE.

One can shredded pineapple, and one cup sugar; let come to a boil;
one-half box gelatine dissolved in a cup of warm water.  When milk
becomes warm, stir gelatine into pineapple, and add one pint of
whipped cream.  Whip all together thoroughly, and set away in a cold
place.



AMBROSIA FOR ONE.  A. L. OOLAH, OR GEORGE VAN FLEET.

Fill a saucer with fresh peaches, finely sliced, or strawberries,
carefully picked and selected; over this, place a measure of
ice-cream, vanilla flavor.  Cover all with powdered sugar to the depth
of one-fourth inch.  Eat with spoon (if your income is over twenty
thousand dollars, you can use a strawberry fork).  Serve with angels
food, or almond macaroons.



JELLIED FRUIT.  MRS. RETTA LUCAS.

Soak two-thirds box gelatine in one-half cup cold water; stand until
dissolved; pour one-half teacup hot water over the dissolved gelatine.
Take the juice of two lemons, two oranges, one and one-half cups
sugar.  Separate one orange into smallest dimensions, removing the
seeds.  Lay bananas, cut in small pieces, and malaga grapes with the
oranges in the bottom of mold; strain the liquid over these, and set
to cool.



GELATINE, WITH FRUIT.  MRS. W. H. ECKHART.

Take one ounce box of gelatine; put to soak in a pint of cold water
for an hour.  Take the juice of three lemons, and one orange, with
three cups of sugar; add this to the gelatine, and pour over all three
pints of boiling water; let this boil up once, stirring all the time.
Take two molds of the same size, and pour half your jelly into each.
Stir into one mold half a cup of candied cherries, and into the other
one pound of blanched almonds.  The almonds will rise to the top.  Let
these molds stand on ice, or in a cool place until thoroughly
set--twenty-four hours is best.  When ready to serve, loosen the
sides, and place the almond jelly on top the other, on a fruit
platter.  Slice down, and serve with whipped cream.



FRUIT RECIPE FOR HOT WEATHER.

Remove the rind of two lemons, and cut the lemons in small pieces; add
two cups of sugar, one pint of boiling water, three tablespoons of
corn starch; mix with a little milk; put them all together, and boil
slowly for five minutes.  Cut into small bits four oranges; put in a
deep dish, ready for the table, and sprinkle over them a little fine
sugar; pour the lemon compound over them.  When cold, whip whites of
two eggs; add a very little sugar.  Flavor with lemon extract.  Put in
ice box to cool.



FRUIT SALAD.  CARRIE LINSLEY.

Place a layer of sliced oranges in the bottom of a glass dish; then a
layer of bananas; one of pineapple; sprinkle confectioners sugar
between layers; continue this until the dish is nearly full; then pile
high with fresh grated cocoanut.



FRUIT SALAD.  CARRIE LINSLEY.

Two oranges, two peaches, two bananas, a few slices of pineapple,
one-half pound of mixed nuts, one-fourth pound of figs, candied
cherries, juice of three lemons, one-half box of gelatine, one pint of
boiling water, two cups of sugar, whipped cream to make clear; avoid
stirring.



KENTUCKY PUDDING.  MAMIE FAIRFIELD.

CUSTARD.--Two quarts milk, six eggs, two tablespoons corn starch, one
cup sugar, a pinch salt, one tablespoon vanilla; add to this one quart
whipped cream, one pint each candied or preserved cherries, pineapple,
and strawberries.  Let custard cool before adding cream and fruit.
Freeze as ice-cream.



PEACH ICE-CREAM.  NELL LINSLEY.

One pint new milk, one pint sweet cream, one cup sugar, one quart
peach pulp (peeled ripe or canned peaches, and put through the
colander).  Let cream and milk come to a boil; add sugar, and cool;
add peach pulp, and freeze.



FROZEN ORANGES.  Rub the rinds of four oranges in a pound of loaf
sugar; peel one dozen oranges; take out the pulp; add it to sugar with
the juice of three lemons; set it on ice two hours; then a quart of
ice water, and freeze hard, and serve in glasses.



A DAINTY DESSERT.

Frozen fruit makes a dainty and acceptable dessert for dinner or lunch
during the summer, and is prepared by mixing and freezing, the same as
water ices, then working and cutting the fruits, and using without
straining.



FROZEN CHERRIES.

Stone one quart of acid cherries; mix them with two pounds of sugar,
and stand aside one hour; stir thoroughly; add a quart of ice water;
put in the freezer, and stir rapidly until frozen; heat smooth; set
aside half an hour, and serve.  That is the way to make frozen
cherries.



FROZEN AMBROSIA.

To make frozen ambrosia, pare and slice a dozen sour oranges; lay in a
bowl; sprinkle with sugar; cover with grated cocoanut; let stand two
hours; mix all together; freeze. Take up in a large glass bowl; lay
over the top thin slices of orange; sprinkle with cocoanut and sugar.



FROZEN PEACHES AND PLUMS.

Pare a dozen and a half ripe, soft peaches.  Remove the skin and seeds
from a quart of sour plums; mash, and add to the peaches.  Work the
kernels of both to a paste; add them to the sugar and fruit; let stand
two hours; then add a quart of ice water; stir, and freeze.  This is a
delicious dish.



PINEAPPLE SOUFFLE.

Pare, and remove the eyes from two good-sized pineapples; then chop
into bits, and sprinkle with one-half pound of sugar; let the whole
stand until quite soft; then mash, and strain through a fine sieve.
To one quart of juice so obtained, add one quart of water and twelve
eggs, which have been rubbed to a cream with one and one-half pounds
of sugar.  Put the mixture in a farina kettle, and cook till it
assumes the thickness of soft custard; then strain, and beat briskly
till cold.  Freeze, and serve with sweet cream, flavored with fruit
juice.



BISQUE ICE-CREAM.

Put in a farina kettle one quart of good sweet cream, three-quarters
of a pound of sugar, and one tablespoonful of vanilla extract, and
allow the mixture to cook till the water in the outer kettle boils;
then remove from the fire.  Brown two ounces of macaroons in a
moderate oven; cool, and roll to a fine powder; stir into the cream,
and when cold, freeze.



LEMON SHERBERT.  MRS. G. H. WRIGHT.

To one quart of sweet milk, add one pint of sugar, the well beaten
whites of two eggs, and the juice of three lemons.  Add the lemon
juice after it commences to freeze.



LEMON ICE.  MRS. H. T. VAN FLEET.

To one quart of water, add four cups of sugar; let this come to
boiling point; let cool; strain through a cloth; add the juice of six
lemons, and juice of two oranges; beat the whites of six eggs to a
stiff froth.  Put the syrup in the freezer; then add the beaten
whites.  Freeze same as ice-cream.  Stir constantly until sufficiently
frozen.



APRICOT ICE.  ALICE FAIRFIELD.

Make syrup same as lemon ice; add one can of apricots (mashed fine),
three lemons, and juice of one orange, if wanted.  Freeze same as
lemon ice.



ORANGE SHERBERT.  M. E. BEALE.

One tablespoon of gelatine, one pint of cold water, one cup of sugar,
six oranges or one pint of juice, one-half cup of boiling water.  Soak
the gelatine in one-half cup of cold water ten minutes.  Put the sugar
and remainder of cold water in a large pitcher; squeeze the juice into
the pitcher; add it to the gelatine after it is dissolved; strain into
the can, and freeze.



CONFECTIONS

"Sweet meats, messengers of strong prevailment in an unhardened
youth."
                                                        --SHAKESPEARE.


TO BLANCH ALMONDS.

Put them into cold water, and allow it to come to a boiling point;
then remove the skins, and throw them into cold water a few moments to
preserve the color.

For salted almonds, prepare as above; put into a dripping pan with
some lumps of butter; set into a moderate oven until nicely browned.
Sprinkle over them some salt, and toss until thoroughly mixed.

Peanuts may be prepared in same manner.



CHOCOLATE CREAMS.  MRS. EDWARD E. POWERS.

Two pounds XXXX confectioners' sugar, one-fourth pound grated
cocoanut, one tablespoonful vanilla, a pinch of salt, whites of three
eggs (beaten very stiff); mix all together, and roll into small balls;
let stand one-half hour; then dip into the chocolate, prepared thus:
One-half cake Bakers chocolate (grated fine), two tablespoonfuls
butter.  Warm the butter; mix in the chocolate.  When cool, dip the
creams in, and set on a buttered plate to harden.



VANILLA TAFFY.  MRS. EDWARD E. POWERS.

Three cups of granulated sugar, one cup of cold water, three
tablespoonfuls of vinegar.  Cook without stirring until it threads;
add one tablespoonful of vanilla; let cool; pull until white; cut into
small squares.



DANDY TAFFY.  MIRIAM DE WOLFE.

Three cups brown sugar, one cup water, one cup white sugar, one
tablespoonful vinegar.  When nearly done, add one tablespoonful
vanilla.  Pour into buttered tins.



CHOCOLATE CARAMELS.  MRS. NED THATCHER.

One cup of sweet milk, two cups of brown sugar, two cups of molasses,
one pint of water, a tablespoon of butter.  Flavor to taste.  Two
ounces of chocolate just before taking from the fire.



MOLASSES CANDY.  MRS. DR. FISHER.

Take one quart of molasses (maple is best); boil until it is crisp
when put in water; then stir in one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a
little warm water; stir until well mixed.  Pour into buttered pans.
Pull part until white, and make into sticks.  In the remainder put
roasted corn, peanuts, walnuts, almonds, or hazelnuts.



COCOANUT DROPS.  MRS. DR. FISHER.

Grate the white part of a cocoanut, the whites of four eggs (well
beaten), one-half pound of sifted sugar.  Flavor with lemon or rose.
Mix as thick as can be stirred.  Make in balls, putting them about one
inch apart on paper on baking tins.  Put into a quick oven; take out
when they begin to look yellow.



BUTTER SCOTCH.  MRS. EDWARD E. POWERS.

Two cups brown sugar, two cups molasses, two tablespoonfuls butter,
two tablespoonfuls vinegar.  Boil until it threads; then pour into
shallow pans to harden.



PICKLES.

"Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers."
                                                       --MOTHER GOOSE.
                                                                      


FOR SIX HUNDRED PICKLES.  MRS. M. E. WRIGHT.

Make a brine of cold water and salt strong enough to bear up an egg;
heat boiling hot, and pour over pickles; let stand twenty-four hours;
then take out, and wipe dry.  Scald vinegar, and put over; let stand
twenty-four hours; then pour off, and to fresh vinegar add one quart
brown sugar, two large green peppers, one-half pint white mustard
seed, six cents worth ginger root, six cents worth cinnamon and
allspice, one tablespoon celery seed, alum size butternut.  Scald,
pour over, and tie up in jars.



CUCUMBER PICKLES.  MRS. H. T. VAN FLEET.

Pour enough boiling water over pickles to cover them, and let stand
twenty-four hours; measure water so that you may know what quantity of
vinegar to use.  Take them out of water, wiping each one separately
with dry towel; place in close layers in stone jar.  To one gallon of
vinegar, add one cup of salt, two tablespoons of pulverized alum, same
of cloves, allspice, mustard, and cinnamon; put all in vinegar, and
let come to boil; pour this over pickles.  When cool, place plate
over, and add a weight.  Pickles prepared in this way will keep nicely
a year.



CHOW-CHOW.  MRS. ALICE KRANER.

One quart green cucumbers (cut lengthwise), one dozen small cucumbers
(whole), one dozen small onions, one large cauliflower, one quart
small green tomatoes.  Put the cucumbers in brine for three days; the
rest scald in salt and water; add pepper and other spices to taste.
Two and one-half quarts vinegar, two and one-half cups sugar, one cup
flour, six tablespoonfuls mustard.  Scald the vinegar, sugar, flour,
and mustard.  Pour this over the whole bottle; and seal.



CHOW-CHOW.  MRS. C. C. STOLTZ.

Two quarts small cucumbers, two quarts small onions, two cauliflowers,
six green peppers; cut all, and put in salt and water four hours; then
scald, and drain.

PASTE.--Six tablespoonfuls mustard, one tablespoonful turmeric, one
and one-half cups sugar, one cup flour.  Mix all well together; add
cold vinegar to wet it up; pour into two quarts of boiling vinegar.

Pour this on pickles; mix thoroughly, and put in cans.



PICKLED ONIONS.  MRS. DR. FISHER.

Peel small white onions, and boil them in milk and water ten minutes;
drain off the milk and water, and pour over the onions scalding spiced
vinegar.



PICKLED PEACHES.  MRS. DR. FISHER.

Wipe ripe but hard peaches until free from down; stick a few cloves
into each one; lay in cold spiced vinegar.  In three months, they will
be nicely pickled, and retain much of their natural flavor.



MANGO PICKLES.  MRS. W. H. ECKHART.

[In this recipe, the term "mango" refers to green bell peppers.]  Use
either small muskmelons or sweet peppers; take out the insides, and
lay them in strong salt water twenty-four hours; drain well.  For
filling, cut cabbage fine; salt it; let it stand one hour; wash with
clear water, and drain well; add celery seed and ground cinnamon to
taste.  Fill the mangoes; tie closely; pack in stone jars.  Then to
one gallon of good cider vinegar, add three pounds of brown sugar;
heat, and pour over the mangoes; repeat the heating of vinegar two or
three mornings in succession.



MIXED PICKLES.  MAUD STOLTZ.

Two hundred little cucumbers, fifty large cucumbers, three
tablespoonfuls black mustard seed, three tablespoonfuls white mustard
seed, three tablespoonfuls celery seed, one dozen red peppers, two
pounds sugar, one quart French mustard, one bottle English chow-chow,
one quart little onions, vinegar to cover.  Cook slowly for one hour.



TOMATO CHOW-CHOW.  MRS. A. H. KLING.

One-half peck green tomatoes, two large heads of cabbage, fifteen
onions, twenty-five ripe cucumbers, one pint of grated horseradish,
one-half pound of white mustard seed, one ounce of celery seed,
one-half teacup each of ground pepper, turmeric, and cinnamon.  Cut
tomatoes, cabbage, onions, and cucumbers in small pieces, and salt
over night.  In the morning, drain off the brine; put on vinegar and
water, half and half; let stand twenty-four hours; drain again; put in
the spices.  Boil two gallons of vinegar with three pounds of brown
sugar; pour over while hot; do this three mornings; then add one-half
pound of mustard; stir in when nearly cold.



SPANISH PICKLE.  MRS. W. H. ECKHART.

Four heads of cabbage, one peck of green tomatoes, one dozen large
cucumbers, one-half dozen sweet peppers (red), one-half dozen sweet
peppers (green), one quart of small white onions; cut all these in
small pieces, and let stand in brine over night; wash in cold water,
and drain.  Cut six bunches of celery in small pieces.

DRESSING FOR THE PICKLE.--Two gallons of good cider vinegar, five
pounds of brown sugar, five cents worth of turmeric, five cents worth
of white mustard seed, one-half pound of ground mustard, one-half cup
of flour, a tablespoon of whole cloves, and the same of stick
cinnamon.

Let the vinegar, sugar, and all the spices come to boiling point; add
the chopped vegetables, and one hundred small cucumber pickles that
have been in brine over night. Cook one-half hour; then add the
turmeric, ground mustard and flour mixed to a paste; cook five minutes
longer.  Bottle, and eat when your stomach craves it.



CELERY, OR FRENCH PICKLE.  MRS. F. E. BLAKE.

One gallon each of chopped (very fine) cabbage, celery and sweet
peppers; one cupful of salt over peppers after being chopped; mix
well; let stand two hours; wash thoroughly till water is clear to
prevent coloring cabbage and celery.  Mix together cabbage, celery,
and peppers; to this add one tablespoonful of salt, one pint of white
mustard seed (not ground), four pints of sugar, hot peppers to suit
the taste.  Put in jars for immediate use; in sealed cans to keep.  Be
fore putting away, add one gallon of good cider vinegar, cold.



GREEN TOMATO PICKLE.  MRS. F. R. SAITER.

Slice one peck of green tomatoes, and four green peppers; place in a
stone jar in layers, sprinkling each layer thickly with salt; cover
with boiling water; let stand over night; drain in the morning through
a colander, and add four large onions sliced, with an ounce of whole
cloves, one ounce of cinnamon, two pounds of brown sugar.  Place all
together in a preserving kettle; nearly cover with vinegar; boil slow
until tender.  Set away in a jar.  Next day, if the syrup seems thin,
drain off, and boil down.  Cover top of jar with a cloth before
setting away.



CUCUMBER PICKLES.  KITTIE M. SMITH.

Wash your cucumbers; then pour boiling water on them, and let them
stand eighteen hours.  Take them out, and make a brine of one pint of
salt to one gallon of water; pour on boiling hot; let stand
twenty-four hours.  Then wipe them dry, and pack them in your jar.
Put in slips of horseradish, and what spices you like.  Cover with
cold cider vinegar. Put grape leaves on the top.  They are ready to
use in twenty-four hours, and if the vinegar is pure cider vinegar,
will keep indefinitely.



CHOPPED PICKLE.  MRS. S. A. POWERS.

One peck green tomatoes, one dozen red sweet peppers, chopped fine;
cover with salt water; let stand twenty-four hours; drain dry; add one
head cabbage, one bunch celery chopped fine, one pint grated
horseradish, one teacupful cloves, one teacupful black mustard seed,
salt to taste, one pint or more very small cucumbers, or one-half
dozen ordinary cucumbers cut into small strips; cover with cold cider
vinegar.  If desired to keep, seal in self sealers.



CURRANT CATSUP.  MRS. E.

Five quarts juice, three pounds sugar; boil juice and sugar until it
thickens; then add one pint vinegar, tablespoon ground cinnamon and
cloves, teaspoon each of salt and pepper; bottle for use.  You can use
grape juice.



FLINT PICKLES.  MRS. LAURA MARTIN EVERETT.

Use medium-sized cucumbers; wash clean, and lay in jars. Make a brine
of water and salt--one teacup of salt to a gallon of water; boil, and
pour over the cucumbers; move brine nine mornings in succession; boil,
and pour over; then wash in hot water, and put to drain.  When cool,
place in stone jars, one layer of pickles, and then a layer of grape
leaves, some horseradish, and a few sliced onions, if you like the
taste of onion.  When your jars are full, make a syrup of good vinegar
and sugar, sweetened to taste, and add stick of cinnamon, a little
celery seed; boil, and pour over the pickles.  Invert a plate or
saucer, and put on a small weight; tie up closely.  They will keep the
year round, and are very palatable.



TOMATO CATSUP.  MRS. G. LIVINGSTON.

One gallon strained tomatoes, one quart good vinegar, one tablespoon
each cloves, mustard, and cinnamon, a little salt, one teaspoon red
pepper; cook one hour, and bottle.



TOMATO CATSUP.  MRS. ALICE KRANER.

Two and one-half gallons ripe tomatoes; rub through a sieve; eight
cups cider vinegar, one and one-half cups salt, two and one-half cups
brown sugar, nine teaspoonfuls mustard, four teaspoonfuls ginger, five
teaspoonfuls allspice, five teaspoonfuls cloves, five teaspoonfuls
black pepper, four teaspoonfuls cayenne pepper.



COLD CATSUP.  MRS. F. E. BLAKE.

One peck of tomatoes, sliced fine; sprinkle with salt lightly, and let
stand two hours; rub through coarse sieve or colander; to this, add
one-half pint grated horseradish, one large cup salt, one and one-half
cups white mustard seed, one tablespoonful black pepper, one quart
fine chopped celery, one large teacupful chopped onions, one and
one-half cups sugar, one tablespoonful ground cloves, one
tablespoonful ground cinnamon, three pints good cider vinegar.  Mix
cold, and use immediately, or can, and it will keep for years.



COMMON CATSUP.  MRS. F. E. BLAKE.

Cut up tomatoes, skins and all; cook thoroughly.  When cool, rub
through a sieve.  To one gallon of tomato juice, put a tablespoonful
of salt, one tablespoonful of pepper, one tablespoonful of cinnamon,
and one quart of good cider vinegar.  Cook until thick.



GOOSEBERRY CATSUP.  EVELYN GAILEY.

Six quarts berries, nine pounds sugar, one pint vinegar, one
tablespoonful each of cloves, cinnamon, and allspice.  One-half the
vinegar put on berries at first.  When nearly done, strain, and add
rest of the vinegar, and spices.  Boil three or four hours.



SPICED GRAPES.  MRS. G. A. LIVINGSTON.

One pound of fruit, one-half pound of sugar, one pint of vinegar, two
teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, two teaspoonfuls of cloves, one teaspoonful
of allspice.  Cook pulp and skins separately.



PICKLED PEARS.  MRS. F. E. BLAKE.

To one gallon of moderately strong vinegar, add a small handful of
cloves (not ground), several sticks of cinnamon, sugar enough to make
vinegar quite sweet.  Take small pears, and with a small pointed knife
remove all blemishes, but do not pare them.  Put vinegar on the stove.
When it comes to a boil, fill kettle as full of pears as will boil;
set on back of stove, and boil slowly for three and one-half hours;
fill your cans, and seal while very hot.



ROSA'S SWEET PICKLE.

Nine pounds peaches, three pounds sugar, three quarts good cider
vinegar.  Peel the peaches; then put them with the sugar and vinegar
in a porcelain lined kettle; cook for five to ten minutes; put two
cloves in each peach; add a little whole allspice.



SPICED GRAPES.  MRS. ELIZA CORWIN, MT. GILEAD, OHIO.

Wash the bunches carefully.  Use two or three gallon jars.  Put a
thick layer of brown sugar on bottom of jar; then a layer of bunches
of grapes; sprinkle on a few whole cloves, allspice, and stick
cinnamon.  Alternate layers of sugar and grapes as above until jar is
full.  Turn plate on top; put on weight; tie cloth closely over top;
put in cool place.  The grapes are nice served with cold meats.  The
syrup can be used for cake, puddings, mince pies, etc.  Towards
spring, strain all that is left in the jar through a flannel cloth;
bottle it, and use through summer; use for dysentery.  A few spoonfuls
in ice water makes a pleasant drink for hot days.



SPICED GOOSEBERRIES.  MRS. C. C. CAMPBELL.

Six quarts berries, nine pounds sugar.  Cook one and one-half hours;
then add one pint vinegar, one teaspoonful cloves, one tablespoonful
cinnamon, one tablespoonful allspice.



CHILI SAUCE.  MRS. M. E. WRIGHT.

Twenty-four ripe tomatoes, eight onions, twelve green peppers, four
tablespoons salt, eight tablespoons sugar, two tablespoons cinnamon,
two tablespoons ginger, one tablespoon cloves, four teacups vinegar;
boil slowly two hours.



CANNED FRUIT AND JELLIES.

"Will't please your honor, taste of these conserves?"
                                                         --Shakespeare


CANNED FRUIT IN GENERAL.  MRS. F. E. BLAKE.

For peaches, for instance, set on the stove a kettle of cold
water--just enough so the can will not tip over; into this kettle, put
one-half dozen nails to keep the can from touching the bottom; then
fill the can full of peaches, cut in halves; then fill the can with
cold water; add two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and set in kettle to
boil; let boil until the fruit is tender, but not enough to break
while cooking.  When done nicely, put the top on the can, and set
away.



RASPBERRY JAM.  MRS. E. S.

Weigh equal parts of fruit and sugar.  Put the fruit into a preserving
pan, and mash with a silver or wooden spoon; let boil up; then add the
sugar; stir all the time while cooking.  Strawberry or blackberry jam
is made the same way.  Thirty or forty minutes is sufficient time for
cooking.



TO PRESERVE PEACHES.  L. D.

Take equal portions of peaches and sugar; pare, stone, and quarter the
fruit.  Put the sugar with the peaches; let stand over night.  In the
morning, boil slowly in preserving kettle one hour and three-fourths;
skim well.



TO PRESERVE QUINCES.  L. D.

Pare and core. Be sure you get out all the seeds.  Boil the skins and
cores one hour; then strain through a coarse cloth; boil your quinces
in this juice until tender; drain them out; add the weight of the
quinces in sugar to this syrup; boil, and skim until clear; then put
in the quinces.  Boil three hours slowly.



TOMATO BUTTER.  MRS. J. KISHLER.

To one quart of tomato, add one pint of apple; put both through sieve;
one quart of sugar, some ground cinnamon; cook until it begins to look
like a preserve.



ORANGE MARMALADE.  MRS. DR. TRUE.

To eighteen ripe oranges, use six pounds best white sugar.  Grate the
peel from four oranges; reserve for marmalade. (The rinds of the
remainder will not be used).  Pare the fruit, removing the white skin
as well as the yellow; slice the oranges; remove all seeds.  Put the
fruit and grated peel into a preserving kettle; boil until reduced to
a smooth mass; rub quickly through a colander; stir in the sugar;
return to the stove; boil fast, stirring constantly, one-half hour, or
until thick.  Put in glasses, or jars; cover closely when cold.



CURRANT JELLY.  MISS KITTIE SMITH.

A FRENCH CONFECTIONERS RECIPE.--Allow one pound of sugar to one pint
of juice.  Boil the juice five minutes, and add the sugar, which has
been previously well heated; boil one minute, stirring carefully.
Always a success.



CURRANT JELLY.  MRS. DR. TRUE.

Weigh the currants on the stems.  Do not wash them, but carefully
remove all leaves; or whatever may adhere to them.  Put a few of the
currants into kettle (porcelain lined or granite iron); mash them to
secure juice to keep from burning; add the remainder of the fruit, and
boil freely for twenty-five minutes, stirring occasionally; strain
through a three-cornered bag of strong texture, putting the liquid in
earthen or wooden vessels (never in tin).  Return the strained liquid
to the kettle without the trouble of measuring; let it boil well for a
moment or two; add half the amount of granulated or loaf sugar. As
soon as the sugar is dissolved, the jelly is done.  Put in glasses.



PINEAPPLE JAM.

Peel, grate, and weigh the apple.  Put pound to pound of pineapple and
sugar.  Boil it in a preserving kettle thirty or forty minutes.



CRABAPPLE JELLY.

Boil the apples, with just enough water to cover them, until tender;
mash with a spoon, and strain out the juice.  Take a pint of juice to
a pound of sugar; boil thirty minutes, and strain through a hair
sieve.



ROSE GERANIUM JELLY.  MRS. SAMUEL BARTRAM.

Drop one large or two small leaves of rose geranium plant into a quart
of apple jelly a few moments before it is done, and you will add a
novel and peculiarly delightful flavor to the jelly.



CRABAPPLE MARMALADE.

Boil the apples in a kettle until soft, with just enough water to
cover them; mash, and strain through a coarse sieve.  Take a pound of
apple to a pound of sugar; boil half an hour, and put into jars.



CRANBERRY JELLY.  MRS. G. A. LIVINGSTON.

One pound of sugar to each pint of juice; boil, and skim.  Test by
dropping a little into cold water; when it does not mingle with the
water, it is done.



APPLE JELLY.  MRS. E. SEFFNER.

Ten quarts of sour apples, stewed very soft in sufficient water to
cover the fruit; drain over night through a flannel bag, without
pressing; add one pint of sugar to each pint of juice, and three
sliced lemons; boil twenty minutes; strain into glasses or bowls.



PEAR MARMALADE.  MRS. E. SEFFNER.

EXCELLENT FOR TARTS.--Pare and core, then boil the pears to a pulp.
Take half their weight of sugar; put it into the kettle with a little
water; boil until like taffy; skim while boiling; add the pulp of the
pears, about four drops of essence of cloves; boil up once or twice.



PRESERVED STRAWBERRIES.  MRS. KATE MARTIN, TIFFIN, OHIO.

Use one pound of granulated sugar to each quart of berries.  Make a
syrup of the sugar, and sufficient water to moisten it.  While
boiling, drop in the berries, and let them boil ten minutes.  Skim out
the fruit, and put it on a platter.  Boil the syrup ten minutes
longer; then pour it over the berries, and set where it will get the
sun for two days.  Put in jelly glasses, and seal.  Made in this way,
the fruit retains both color and flavor.



TO PRESERVE RASPBERRIES AND STRAWBERRIES.  L. D.

Put pound to pound of sugar and fruit; let stand over night.  In the
morning, boil all together fifteen minutes.  Skim out the berries;
boil the syrup till thick and clear; pour over the fruit.

For millinery go to Jennie Thomas, the oldest and best.



CANNED STRAWBERRIES.  MRS. G. A. LIVINGSTON.

For every quart of strawberries, take one pint of sugar; add a
tablespoonful or two of water.  Let sugar dissolve; then add fruit,
and let boil.  Can immediately in air-tight glass cans.



CHOPPED QUINCES.  MRS. ELIZA DICKERSON.

Pare the quinces; cut in small squares; cover with water, and stew
until tender; pour into a colander, and drain.  To each pint of the
juice, add three-fourths pint of sugar. Let boil, and skim well for
ten or fifteen minutes; then put in the quinces; cook until the syrup
begins to jell.  Put in glasses, and seal same as jelly.



CANNED PINEAPPLE.  MRS. LULU DANN.

Take equal measurements of shredded pineapple and sugar.  Place in a
crock alternately, a layer of shredded pineapple and one of sugar; let
this stand over night.  In the morning, drain off the juice, and to
three cups of juice, add one cup of water.   After this mixture comes
to a boil, put in the pulp of your pineapple, and let boil up (not
cook).  Seal in self sealing jars.





BEVERAGES.

"The cup that cheers, but not inebriates."

"Polly, put the kettle on."



COOLING DRINK FOR INVALIDS.  MRS. RETTA LUCAS.

Two teaspoonfuls arrow root wet with a little cold water, three
tablespoonfuls white sugar, juice of half a lemon, and a small piece
of rind; stir quickly while you fill a quart pitcher with boiling
water.  This is a cooling and nutritious drink for the sick.



RASPBERRY VINEGAR.  MRS. E. S.

To nine quarts of mashed berries, add one quart of good vinegar; let
stand from four days to a week; then squeeze out the juice.  Add one
quart of sugar to each quart of juice.  Boil fifteen minutes; then
bottle tightly.



CHOCOLATE.  MRS. W. E. THOMAS.

Scrape fine two ounces (two squares) unsweetened chocolate.  Use
Walter Baker & Co.s No. 1 chocolate.  Put into a granite ware pan, add
a small cup or sugar, a pinch of salt, and two tablespoons of hot
water; let this boil, stirring it constantly, until it is smooth and
glossy, like a caramel; then add one large pint of good rich milk, and
one pint of hot water; let this come to a boil, stirring constantly;
add a tablespoon of corn starch dissolved in a little cold milk or
water.  When this boils, serve at once, with whipped cream, flavored
with a little vanilla.

If you cannot have the whipped cream, pour your chocolate from one
pitcher into another, or beat with a whisk until frothy.  If you have
to use skimmed milk, take more milk and less water.  Never omit the
salt, as it is very essential to the flavor.



COFFEE.  EUGENE DE WOLFE.

Allow one tablespoonful to each cupful.  Moisten with whole or half
well beaten egg; pour on half pint cold water; let this come to
boiling point; then fill up with boiling water.  Stop up the nose of
the coffee pot, and let stand on stove fifteen to twenty minutes.



INVALID COFFEE.  MRS. S. A. POWERS.

Three cups warm water, one cup baking molasses.  Take as much fresh,
new bran as this will moisten (not wet); mix thoroughly, and brown in
oven exactly like coffee, and to this two pounds of mixed ground Rio
and Java coffee; then stir in three well beaten eggs.  You will have
about ten quarts of mixture when done.

FOR USING.--Take one tablespoonful of this mixture to a cup of boiling
water; let boil from fifteen to twenty minutes.



BREAD.

"The very staff of life; the comfort of the husband; the pride of the
wife."



DRY YEAST.  MRS. W. H. ECKHART.

A large handful of hops put into one quart of water; cover, and let
boil five minutes; strain over one pint of flour; beat until your arm
aches, and the batter is smooth.  When cool, add a cake of good yeast.
When perfectly light, mix stiff with white corn meal, and a little
flour; roll out on the kneading board; cut in cakes, and dry.  Turn
them often.



EVER-READY YEAST.  MRS. W. H. E.

Four good-sized perfect potatoes; pare and grate them quickly.  Pour
boiling water over the grated potato until it thickens like starch;
let cool a few moments; then stir in flour to thicken.  When milk
warm, put in one or two cakes of dry yeast, previously dissolved in a
cup of water; let stand twenty-four hours.  Use one pint of this with
four pints of water for four loaves of bread.  Make the sponge either
at bed time, or early in the morning.   Will keep in a cool place two
weeks.



SWEET YEAST.  MRS. SUSIE SEFFNER.

Boil four large potatoes in two quarts of water.  When done, mash the
potatoes, and add one cup of sugar, one-half cup of salt, one-half cup
of flour.  Boil one pint of hops in the water in which the potatoes
were boiled until strength is out; then strain in the jar with other
ingredients; stir well.  When cool, add one cup of yeast, or one cake
of dry yeast; let raise, and put in jar.  Keep in cool place.



GOOD BREAD.  MRS. SUSIE SEFFNER.

Take six good-sized potatoes; cook until very soft; take from the
water, and mash until creamy; turn the water over the potato scalding
hot, and stir in flour until the consistency of cake batter.  When
cool, stir in one cup of good yeast dissolved in a little warm water;
let rise over night.  First thing in the morning, heat two quarts of
water milk warm; add to the yeast; then stir in flour to make a thick
sponge; let rise; then work to a stiff dough; let rise again; knead
down; let rise again; make into loaves.  When light, bake from three
quarters to one hour.  This makes a large baking.



AN EASY WAY TO MAKE GOOD BREAD.  MRS. G. E. SALMON.

FOR THREE LOAVES.--Take three medium-sized potatoes; boil, and mash
fine; add two tablespoons of flour; scald with potato water; add one
tablespoon of salt, one of lard, and two of sugar.  Have one quart of
this, and when lukewarm, add one cake of yeast, dissolved.  Prepare
this at noon; let stand till morning, stirring two or three times.
In the morning, have the flour warm; mix till stiff enough to knead on
the board, and knead thoroughly for half an hour; rub melted lard over
top, and set in a warm place to rise.  When light, make into loaves,
handling as little as possible; rub melted lard over top, and let rise
again.  Bake fifty minutes.  When taken from the oven, rub the tops of
loaves over with butter.  This will keep the crust soft.



COFFEE CAKE.  MRS. U. F. SEFFNER.

When the bread is ready for the pans, leave about what you would use
for one loaf in the bowl; into that, work one-half cup butter,
one-half cup sugar, the yolks of two eggs, and the white of one egg;
work thoroughly; set to rise. When light, handle carefully; don't work
or roll it; make into cakes with the hands; put into pie plates;
grease the tops with butter; sprinkle on fine bread crumbs, sugar, and
cinnamon, mixed.  When perfectly light, bake twenty or twenty-five
minutes.



BREAD.  MRS. BELLE BLAND.

FOR FOUR LOAVES OF BREAD.--Peel five good-sized potatoes; boil until
soft, and mash through a colander; then two tablespoonfuls of sugar,
one of salt; and five pints of water.  When about cold, add one-half
medium-sized cakes of yeast, which have been well soaked.  Let this
stand in a warm place twenty-four hours.  In the morning, mix stiff;
knead well; let it rise until light; mold into loaves, and when raised
again, bake in a moderately hot oven one hour.



COMMUNION BREAD.  MRS. S. A. YOUNG.

Take one pint flour, one-half teaspoonful baking powder, a little
salt, a teaspoonful butter; rub all together, and then put in enough
water to make a stiff dough.  Cut dough in two pieces; roll to
thickness of heavy pie crust; lay on white paper, and cut into strips
one-fourth inch wide.  Bake between papers in slow oven.



CINNAMON BREAD.

Take flour as for making biscuit; add a cupful of yeast sponge, two
well beaten eggs, a quart of luke-warm water, and a cupful of sugar.
Salt and knead same as light dough and set to rise.   When it is ready
to make out, roll into thin cakes; place in well buttered pans and let
it rise again.  Bake to a light brown on top, and when done, spread a
cream over it, as follows:  White of an egg beaten to stiff froth; add
teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, and a tablespoonful of granulated
sugar.  When this is done, put the bread again in the oven to dry the
cream.  This is delicious.



GRAHAM BREAD.  MRS. A. C. AULT.

Two cups graham flour, one cup buttermilk, one-half cup sugar, one
egg, one teaspoonful soda, one tablespoonful butter, a pinch salt.



GRAHAM BREAD.

One cup sponge, one cup warm water, one-fourth cup molasses, two
tablespoons melted butter.  Thicken with equal quantities of graham,
and flour just enough to form a loaf; then raise.



BROWN BREAD.  MRS. MARY DICKERSON.

Three cups of sweet milk, three cups of graham flour, one and one-half
cups of corn meal, one cup of molasses, one teaspoon of salt, one
teaspoon of soda.  Steam for three hours in four one pound baking
powder cans, with the covers on.



BOSTON BROWN BREAD.  MRS. JOHN ROBINSON.

One and one-half pints sour milk, one cup baking molasses, two
teaspoonfuls soda (one in the milk, one in the molasses); beat well
before putting together.  One teaspoonful salt, four cups graham
flour, one teaspoonful baking powder in the flour.  Steam two and
one-half hours; remove the lids, and set in the oven one-half hour.
Five canfuls.



BOSTON BROWN BREAD.  MRS. S. E. BARLOW.

One and one-half pints sour milk, one cup baking molasses, scant
teaspoon soda in each; foam separately.  Pour cups graham flour, one
teaspoon baking powder, one teaspoon salt.  Put in one pound baking
powder cans; steam two and one-half hours, and bake half hour.



CORN BREAD.  MRS. SAMUEL SAITER.

Mix together one and two-third cups corn meal, one-third cup flour,
one-fourth cup sugar, one teaspoonful salt. Beat two eggs until light,
and add to them one cup sour milk, and one cup sweet milk in which one
teaspoonful soda has been dissolved; mix thoroughly.  Have the frying
pan very hot, with two tablespoonfuls butter; pour the batter into it;
then pour into this mixture another cup of sweet milk, but do not stir
the cake.  Place pan into hot oven, and bake one-half hour.



CORN BREAD.  MRS. SALMON.

Two heaping cups corn meal, one heaping cup flour, two teaspoons
baking powder sifted with flour, whites and yolks of three eggs beaten
separately, two and one-half cups sweet milk, one tablespoon melted
butter, one tablespoon white sugar, one teaspoon salt.  Bake steadily
in a moderately hot oven.



CORN BREAD.  MRS. A. C. AULT.

One and one-half pints corn meal, one-half pint flour, one
tablespoonful sugar, one teaspoonful salt, two heaping teaspoons
baking powder, one tablespoonful lard, one and one-fourth pints milk,
two eggs.  Sift together corn meal, flour, sugar, salt, and baking
powder; rub in lard cold; add the egg; mix to a moderately stiff
batter.  Bake in rather hot oven thirty minutes.



CORN BREAD.  MRS. C. H. WILLIAMS.

Two cups sweet milk, one egg, one and one-half teacups wheat flour,
two teacups Indian meal, two tablespoonfuls sugar, a little salt, four
teaspoonfuls cream tartar put in with flour, two teaspoonfuls soda
dissolved in warm water; add this last.  Bake in gem pans in a quick
oven.

Darmody & McClures Premium Corn Meal should be used with these
recipes.



CORN BREAD.  MRS. F. E. H. SELLERS.

One pint buttermilk, one pint corn meal, one pint flour, one
teaspoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls soda in milk, six tablespoonfuls
molasses, one egg.  Bake in slow oven thirty minutes.



STEAMED CORN BREAD.  MRS. CHAS. MOORE.

Two cupfuls new milk, two cupfuls Indian meal, one and one-half
cupfuls flour, two-thirds cupful New Orleans molasses, one scant
teaspoon soda.  Mix flour, meal, and salt together thoroughly; then
add milk, and beat till smooth.  Dissolve soda in molasses; add to
mixture; then put in buttered pan; steam three hours, setting steamer
over cold water.  Put in oven fifteen minutes.



POTATO RUSKS.  MRS. E. S. JORDAN.

Six good-sized potatoes cooked soft and then mashed, one-half cup
butter and one-half cup lard mixed, one cup sugar, one-half cup cooled
potato water, two tablespoons flour, one cup yeast.  Mix the above;
let rise, and then beat three eggs; put in, and work up.



PENN RUSKS.  MRS. A. C. AULT.

One large potato.  Make sponge same as bread in the evening.  In the
morning, add one pint of sweet milk, one cup white sugar, one-half cup
butter, and more flour.  Let rise again; knead out soft; let rise
again; cut out; put in pans; let rise once more.  Bake fifteen
minutes.

Best results obtained by using "ELECTRIC LIGHT FLOUR."



RAISED BISCUIT.  MRS. M. A. MOORHEAD.

One pint sweet milk, one half cup butter, one tablespoonful sugar, one
tablespoonful yeast, a little salt, whites of two eggs beaten stiff.
Make the sponge at supper time.  At bed time, work in flour to make a
stiff dough.  Put in warm place to rise over night.  In the morning
turn it out on the kneading board.  Smooth out with the hand about one
inch thick; cut in small cakes; let stand five minutes; put in oven;
bake fifteen minutes.  Delicious for breakfast.



BEATEN BISCUIT.  GAIL HAMILTON.

One quart flour, one heaping tablespoonful lard, water to make stiff
dough, a little salt.  Beat well with rolling pin; work into flat
biscuit; make a few holes in each with a fork.  Bake in quick oven.



TO MAKE RUSKS.  MRS. G. A. WRIGHT.

One quart of bread sponge, one coffee-cup white sugar, one teacup
butter, two eggs, one pint sweet milk, a little salt.  Beat the sugar
and eggs well before adding the milk.  Flour to knead well.



PARKER HOUSE ROLLS.  MRS. CHARLES MOORE.

Rub one-half teaspoon of lard and one-half of butter into two quarts
of sifted flour.  Into a well in the center of flour, one pint cold
boiled milk, and add one-half cup yeast or one cake dry yeast,
dissolved in one-half cup warm water, one-half cup sugar, and a little
salt.  Set at one o'clock [ten p.m. for dinner next day?]; make up at
two o'clock, and put in pans at half past four for six o'clock tea.
Keep in warm place.



BAKING POWDER BISCUIT.  MRS. H. T. VAN FLEET.

To one pint of flour, add two teaspoonfuls of baking powder; sift
together; add one heaping tablespoon of butter, and a pinch of salt.
Use enough sweet milk to make a very soft mixture.  Work the butter
through the milk in the center of flour.  Do not roll out on board, as
the mixture is too soft, but make out by hand as you would light
rolls.  Avoid kneading.  Bake in quick oven.



DELICIOUS TEA ROLLS.  MRS. U. F. SEFFNER.

Two tablespoonfuls butter, two tablespoonfuls sugar, two eggs.  Beat
the three articles all together; add a little salt, one cup sweet
milk, two cups flour, three teaspoonfuls baking powder.  Grease a
large dripping pan with butter.  Drop a tablespoonful in each place.
Bake twenty minutes.



GOOD MUFFINS (CHEAP AND EASY).  MRS. E. FAIRFIELD.

One egg, one cup milk, one tablespoon sugar, one tablespoon butter,
two teacups flour, three teaspoons baking powder, one teaspoon salt.
Mix yolk of egg, butter, and sugar; add then the flour, baking powder,
and salt, sifted together; then white of egg, beaten well.  Bake ten
minutes in quick oven.  Much of the success in baking depends upon
having the iron muffin ring well heated on the top of stove before
putting the batter in them.



MUFFINS.  MRS. W. C. BUTCHER.

Three eggs beaten separately, one-half cup of sugar, two-thirds cup of
butter, one pint of sweet milk, two heaping teaspoons of baking
powder; add flour to make it as thick as cake batter.



MUFFIN OR SHORTCAKE DOUGH.  MRS. DR. McMURRAY.

Two pints of flour, three tablespoons of sugar, one tablespoon of
melted butter, one egg, one pint of sweet milk, three teaspoons of
baking powder.  Bake in a quick oven in muffin rings, or drop the
dough from the end of your spoon as you do for drop cake.  To be eaten
hot.  Try with a broom splint, as cake.  Enough for four or five large
persons.



QUICK MUFFINS.  MRS. S. E. BARLOW.

One cup flour, one heaping teaspoon baking powder, one egg, two
tablespoons melted butter, a little salt; mix all together; before
stirring them, add sufficient water to make a stiff batter.  Bake in
hot oven about fifteen minutes.



MUFFINS.  MRS. A. C. AULT.

One cup sweet milk, one-half cup butter, one egg, one tablespoonful
sugar, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, two and one-half cups flour, a
pinch salt.

"ELECTRIC LIGHT FLOUR" is guaranteed pure winter wheat flour.



MUFFINS.  MRS. T. H. LINSLEY.

To each cup of flour, add two teaspoons of baking powder, large pinch
of salt; moisten with sweet milk to the consistency of drop dough.
Have muffin pans hot, with a teaspoonful of butter in each.  Bake ten
minutes in hot oven.



CORN MUFFINS.  E. S.

Make just as you do wheat muffins, using one-half wheat flour, and
one-half corn meal.

Graham muffins are made in the same manner, using equal parts wheat
and graham flour.



FRENCH BREAD GRIDDLE CAKES.  MRS. R. H. JOHNSON.

One pint bread-crumbs.  One pint milk; scald, and pour over bread
crumbs at night to make a batter.  Four eggs, two cups or less flour,
one-half cup or less butter.  Bake like buckwheats.



VERY NICE CORN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES.  MRS. T. H. LINSLEY.

One pint rich sour milk, one well beaten egg, one large tablespoon
flour, teaspoon soda, meal enough to make the mixture not quite as
thick as for flour cakes.



CORN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES.  MRS. F. E. H. SELLERS.

One and one-half pints sour milk, one good teaspoonful soda, one
teaspoonful salt, one pint corn meal, one-half pint flour, one egg.



ANNIE'S CORN CAKES.

One egg, one pint of sour milk, one-half teaspoonful soda, pinch salt,
one-half cup flour, corn meal to make not too stiff a batter.



MUSH.  W. R. C.

To three quarts of boiling water, add salt to taste.  Stir in
gradually sufficient corn meal to make it quite thick.  Boil slowly
one hour.  Stir often, and beat well; that will make it light and
smooth.  Eat with cream, milk, and butter, or syrup.  To fry when
cold, cut in thin slices, and fry in lard and butter, mixed.



TO FRY HOT MUSH.  MRS. T. H. LINSLEY.

Fry slices of bacon; remove the meat; drop in the mush by spoonfuls,
and fry delicate brown.



GERMICELLI.  MRS. W. H. ECKHART.

Stir germicelli into two quarts of boiling water until as thick as
mush; add salt.  Boil five or ten minutes, stirring constantly.  Just
before serving, you can stir in a cup of sweet milk, if you wish.
When cold, slice, and fry same as corn mush.



OAT MEAL CRACKERS.  JENNIE L. HARRINGTON.

Two cups oat meal (rolled oats is best), three cups flour, one cup
shortening, one cup sugar, one cup water, one teaspoonful salt, three
teaspoonfuls baking powder; roll very thin.



LEMON CRACKERS.  MRS. E. S. JORDAN.

Two and three-fourths cups of granulated sugar, one cup of butter, one
pint of sweet milk, one cup of lard, three eggs, five cents worth of
lemon oil, five cents worth carbonate of ammonia, a pinch of salt.
Mix stiff, and roll thin; stick with a fork, and bake in a quick oven.



MILK TOAST.  MISS H. W.

Boil one quart of milk; stir into it two tablespoonfuls butter, mixed
with one tablespoonful flour, and a saltspoonful salt.  Let the whole
boil five minutes.  Have ready a dish of toasted bread; pour the milk
over it, and serve hot.  Nice for breakfast.



FRITTERS.

Separate four eggs; beat the yolks until light; add to them one quart
of sweet milk, a little salt.  Beat the whites very stiff; stir in one
quart of flour, and the whites, half and half, with one teaspoonful of
baking powder.  In a tablespoonful of batter, place a slice of nice
sour apple; drop into hot lard, and fry nice brown on both sides.
Serve hot, with butter and syrup.

Make oyster fritters the same way, using fine large oysters in place
of apples.

ORANGE FRITTERS.--Made in same way, using slices of orange instead of
apple.

PINEAPPLE FRITTERS.--Made in same manner, only stir into the batter a
pineapple, grated or chopped fine.



SPANISH FRITTERS.  MRS. E. S.

Cut the soft of bread into pieces two or three inches long and one
inch thick.  Take one pint and a half of sweet milk; sweeten to taste;
add six well beaten eggs, a little salt; dip the pieces of bread in
the mixture; let them become well saturated.  Fry in hot lard until a
delicate brown.



FOR CANNING CORN.  MRS. MARTHA WRIGHT.

To five pints green corn, add three pints water; cook five minutes;
then dissolve three level teaspoons tartaric acid, and add to corn;
cook a few minutes longer; then it is ready to can in new or nearly
new tin cans.

When preparing for table, drain off liquid; add a very little water;
season and sweeten to taste.  When boiling, add one level teaspoon
soda dissolved in hot water.



SCHMIER KASE.  OLIVE BARKS.

One gallon of sour milk; scald until crumbly; let drip until whey is
separated from curd; mash fine; salt to suit the taste; add one pint
of rich sour cream; stir till all is thoroughly mixed together.

The old reliable milliner--Jennie Thomas, 121 S. Main.



MEDICAL LORE AND INVALIDS FOOD.

"Simple diet is best, for many dishes bring many diseases."
 --PLINY.


COUGH SYRUP.  MARY FELTY.

One quart of water, one handful of hops; boil these together, and
strain; put in this fluid a cup of sugar, and boil to a syrup; cut a
lemon into it, and bottle for use.



WHOOPING COUGH SYRUP.  MRS. SARAH SAITER.

One ounce flax seed, one ounce slippery elm, one ounce boneset, one
ounce stick liquorice, one and one-half pounds loaf sugar, one pint
Orleans molasses.  Put first three ingredients in thin muslin bag, and
boil one hour in sufficient water to cover well.  Dissolve the
liquorice in one pint of water; then boil all together a few moments.

DOSE.--One teaspoonful every hour or two, as the case may require.
